The Project Gutenberg eBook of Fan Fare May 1953
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Fan Fare May 1953

Author: W. Paul Ganley

Release date: April 21, 2024 [eBook #73441]

Language: English

Original publication: New York, NY: SSR Publications, 1953

Credits: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FAN FARE MAY 1953 ***





                               FAN FARE

                              VOL 3, NO 3

                                MAY '53

                                  15¢


                    FAN-FARE is published bimonthly
                  by SSR Publications, 119 Ward Rd.,
                      North Tonawanda, New York.

    Manuscripts submitted for publication should be accompanied by
    return postage, and should be typewritten or legibly hand-printed
    on one side of the sheet, double-spaced. We are not responsible
    for unsolicited manuscripts, but all care will be taken in their
    handling. If you have not heard from us within a period of one
    month from the date of submission, you may care to send a follow-up
    letter.

    Subscriptions to FAN-FARE: six issues/75¢. Each issue, 15¢.

    Feel free to write us at the above address for information on
    advertisement rates or concerning other SSR publications.

    SSR PUBLICATIONS consists of A. C. Leverentz, R. E. Briney, and W.
    P. Ganley.

                       _Editor_: W. Paul Ganley

                      Cover by Charles Momberger
                        (see editorial please).




                               CONTENTS


                        THE ANNALS OF AARDVARK
                           by Harlan Ellison

                           THE GOTHIC HORROR
                           by George Wetzel

                              LOOSE ENDS
                             by Jean Reedy

                            A TIME TO LOVE
                         by Don Howard Donnell


                               _VERSE_:

                       THREE A.M., by Walt Klein

                   AT TAKEOFF TIME, by R. L. Clancy

                        NOVA, by Keran O'Brien

                    THE SEA AT EVENING, by A. Duane

                      TAVERN MOOD, by Walt Klein


                              _FEATURES_:

                               ENTR'ACTE

                             ASSAY REPORT

                        WHAT THE CAT DRAGGED IN




                             ... ENTR'ACTE

This issue was published with the thought in mind that it would be nice
to distribute it at the Midwestcon--in the rush to get it finished,
the aid of Robert J. Fritz (editor of the now defunct HYPEROPIA) and
Joseph M. Fillinger (editor of the now defunct GHUVNA). This was a
mistake--as a matter of fact, two mistakes! Note the sloppiness of the
interior reproduction. Note the cover, and realize that Joe swiped it
from a Momberger cover on the second issue of GHUVNA; it suffered in
the process, and I expect Charlie to sue me any day now. I'm tired of
saying in each issue that the next one will see, finally, publication
of the DeWeese story. It is _not_ a myth ... and it will appear. What?
Well, now, you just wait and see!!

Beginning with this issue I am experimenting with kinds of stories--I'm
tired of publishing tales that "almost made the pulps;" eventually,
FAN-FARE will be issued in a better format than mimeographing--I'd have
it lithographed beginning right away if I thought reader support would
pay most of the cost, but I've learned from others' mistakes. And I
refuse to issue it in the not-so-costly microscopic form which early
issues of SF DIGEST used.... I'd have to provide magnifying lenses!

Next issue the regular page of book reviews should return, and I hope
to have another installment of the Loverontz column--having been
an observer to one of the latest atom explosions, he should have
interesting things to comment on....

                                                         --8 June, 1953
                                                           --THE EDITOR




                        THE ANNALS OF AARDVARK

                           BY HARLAN ELLISON


                               CHAPTER 1

                             THE ENTRANCE


C'mon in won't you? You can sit right down there in that rocking chair.
Oh! you saw the sign on the door and wanted to ask me about Aardvark,
did you? Well, I guess I'm the best person to tell you about him since
I was with him from the moment he entered the country. Do you want to
hear from there or from the real beginning? Well, okay, I'll tell you
about the start when he met the Valkyries.

You see Aardvarks can live only in the warmest places. So, when the
Aardvark got lost in the Swiss Alps, he was very uncomfortable. Don't
ask me how an Aardvark got to the Swiss Alps or what he was doing there
in the first place. He's never told anyone, except maybe the Valkyries.

Anyhow, stumbling around in the freezing cold, he got lost; but good.
Just as he was about to give up and say farewell cruel world, he
stumbled upon an ice crypt. Stumbled, he ran into it and knocked out
two teeth.

This crypt which was set in the side of one of the glaciers was not
an ordinary one, for frozen within its icy walls, rent free, were two
Valkyries and a large elephant. Even the elephant was unusual. He was
the sole owner (the Valkyries obviously had no use for one!) of a
handsome brown handle-bar moustache, nicely waxed and glistening.

The Aardvark, who was inquisitive as are all great men, strolled up to
the ice crypt as nonchalantly as a freezing Aardvark could, and dying
of hunger, put forth an exploratory tongue and licked the ice. To his
amazement, the ice was lemon flavored. Wait a minute, I'll tell you why
it was lemon flavored, but first let me tell you what happened.

Knowing full well the consequences of licking open this age-old ice
pack, but racked with hunger, the Aardvark proceeded to lick open the
crypt. After several minutes of lightninglike licking, the Aardvark
sated his hunger and in the process freed the Valkyries.

The Valkyries were forever grateful and proceeded to show the Aardvark
this by bursting into a Wagnerian opera, complete with flowing braids.

After the preceding formality had been dispensed with, introductions
went around and the Aardvark found out the fact, which is of
practically no use to anyone, that the Valkyries' names were Olga and
Ketanya Schwartz. Very old lineage, this name. The elephant, who had
been sitting by looking very bored about the whole thing, was named
Rubin.

The Valkyries, it seems, were delivering a package of lemon flavored
Jell-O to the cook in Valhalla, and en route, had gotten frozen in
the ice. The elephant was their mode of conveyance since all the good
horses had a day off and went to the people races at Lowaleah.

The Aardvark heard all of this in a rather detached way, for you
know most Aardvarks can neither talk, write, nor understand human
language.... The Valkyries who perceived this deficiency were
contemplating giving the Aardvark some of their Valkyrie Local Number
86112 Magic, Pat. Pending, when the recipient in question suddenly
turned a lovely shade of aquamarine, shivered, and dropped over, frozen
solid. This solved the problem very effectively. They worked their
second-hand magic on the fellow, and when he awoke...! Well, there was
a complete change in him. This was the exit of Aardvark, boy nothing,
and the entrance of Cassius Quagmire Aardvark, man of the world.


                               CHAPTER 2

                              MASS EXODUS

After the Valkyries had revived Cassius with the aid of a bouquet
consisting of a quartet of red flowers in liquid form, they placed him
and themselves upon the back of the elephant Rubin, who it was found
was permanently grounded after three or four thousand years of disuse,
and proceeded to the almost obscure town of Eeahohaheeee, Switzerland,
where they intended to settle down.

But the people of the town upon seeing the apparition of a large
elephant with a moustache carrying two beautiful girls and a strange
animal, wanted to burn the aardvark and his companions at the stake
thinking them a figment of their imaginations.

The elephant did not care for this in the least and rearing back on his
hind legs proceeded to tell the townsfolk so, much to their dismay. In
large groups they immediately depopulated the Swiss village.

Cassius, the Aardvark, finding himself alone in the middle of a
deserted town with a moustachioed elephant and two Valkyries decided
that here they were not appreciated, and made preparations for leaving
the country.

In a deserted haberdashery he found a fine, warm English tweed, a top
hat, white gloves, a white bow tie, and a pair of lavender earmuffs,
which he quickly donned. The elephant was equipped with a can of
moustache wax and a muffler, while the Schwartz sisters doffed their
filmy negligee type goddess gowns and donned two lovely business suits.

Then, well clothed and happy, the elephant replaced his travelling
companions upon his back, and calmly swam the Atlantic Ocean to arrive
at the United States of America, where the Aardvark's appearance was
destined to cause a stir and tremor in the daily life of every American.


                               CHAPTER 3

                         "... IT'S A BARGAIN"

A warning of the thing to sweep the country shortly was evidenced when
the moustachioed elephant Rubin came lumbering through the water in the
New York Harbor. People from miles around who got wind of the news (he
was a very smelly elephant) rushed to the docks to watch, or climb to
the tops of buildings with binoculars. And when Rubin climbed ashore on
Ellis Island, the city was thrown into a panic.

It seems that Cassius began conferring at once with two of the
immigration officers about entrance into the country. This was flatly
refused by the officials, who cited a weak clause in the handbook which
excluded all uncivilized beings; and anyone could see that Cassius
was uncivilized,--whoever heard of wearing lavender earmuffs with an
English tweed?

When his traveling companions heard this, they were all for hurling the
immigration officers head first into ye olde New Yawk Harbor.

Right about there is where I came in. Yeah, good old Charlie Smirtz,
that's me. I had been waiting on the Island for a shipload of animals
from Africa and being a producer of some reknown, saw the latent
possibilities in the appearance of these, and I use the term loosely,
people. I had just finished a show on Broadway that had run three years
and was just getting together an animal circus to tour the country. But
when I saw this Aardvark in an English Tweed with a top hat, tie, and
ivory-topped cane, a moustached elephant wearing a muffler, and two
of the most gawjus dames in the world, I knew that this was something
a little unusual. I was sure of it when I saw that the Aardvark was
wearing lavender earmuffs.

Sauntering casually over to where the Aardvark and his companions
were sitting, I introduced myself, and in a low voice related to them
the fact that if they would consent to signing a contract, I would
personally see that they were inside the country before morning. The
Aardvark gives me the cold eye at first and then says, "If you promise,
and write it out in this contract that we are not to appear in any
sideshow type things, we might consent."

Before the fellow could twitch his short brown tail, I had pulled out
my Foster pen that writes under water, air, ink, blood, and money, and
was writing in the clause he mentioned. Then he signed the contract,
and so commenced the partnership of Smirtz, Aardvark, Schwartz, and
Rubin, Inc.


                               CHAPTER 4

                         THE CARBUNCLE VOYAGE

After the signing of the contract, Cassius and his companions retired
to the harbor to wait till I had made the arrangements. Late that
night, very late (about five o'clock), a small tug pulled up to the
island and out came one Hawser Dawson. I can truthfully say that Hawser
is the mouldiest looking animal ever to set foot upon dry land. Or wet
water, for that matter. He is so filthy that his clothes stand up by
themselves when he takes them off at night. And the smell! WHEWWW!!
Hawser Dawson smells like Mrs. Murphy didn't get home with the eggs in
time. He is dirty, smelly, and dumb besides, but he is loyal and one of
the best tugboat captains that ever tripped on a two inch line.

We had arranged to get the Aardvark and his buddies into the country
under cover but I had forgotten to mention to Hawser how big the group
was. When Hawser saw the elephant he almost fainted. His ship, which
was as leaky as Stalin's head wouldn't carry that load. It could hardly
carry Hawser himself. So we arranged to hang the Aardvark and the
elephant under the ship while the Valkyries and myself rode upstairs.

But not only did Dawson get paid twice as much as he should have, he
wanted the Aardvark and Rubin the elephant to work their way in. He
whispered something to Cassius and Rubin and then came aboard. When
the elephant and our hero were slung under the ship, the leaky tub
sank so low into the water that it was wetter on the bridge than it
was under the ship. We got under way shortly and as we sailed around
under cover of darkness we heard a weird sound. It was a systematic
metallic whonking under the boat. When we asked Dawson what the noise
was, he told us that the Aardvark and Rubin were working their way over
by cleaning barnacles off the bottom of the tugboat with their teeth.
I almost fainted when I heard this. Our future star, the brightest new
personality in years ... scraping barnacles! Oh no!

After breaking a steel pipe over Dawson's head, we got the Aardvark
into the ship and started chipping the remnants of his work from his
bicuspids. It was about this time that we got into the small dock that
Hawser had told us would be waiting. We dragged the slightly defunct
sea captain out of the ship, got Rubin out from under and proceeded to
enter the United States of America, which as you know has been renamed
since by some people, the United States of Aardvark. One of the reasons
is because of what happened in the Drunken Cockroach Nightclub. Oh was
that a queer night. It happened on the same evening we got into the
States....


                               CHAPTER 5

                       IN THE DRUNKEN COCKROACH

We got the Aardvark settled quickly in a hotel near the center of town
and then decided to go out and eat someplace. Hawser Dawson wanted to
go along till he got his money and since he wanted it in cash and the
banks didn't open till the next day we decided to let him tag along.
There was but one stipulation: that he take a bath. This almost broke
Stinky's heart but he consented and when he met us in the lobby a few
hours later, he was (as he termed it) "disgustingly filthy clean."

Rubin was looking quite elegant in a rented tux which was a size
sixty-seven. The Schwartz girls were absolutely ravishing in their
two evening gowns that were strapless, hemless, backless, topless,
bottomless, frontless, and with a plunging neckline.

But the really dashing one was Cassius Q Aardvark. He was decked out
in a conservative green and red suit with a yellow tie, spats, a cane,
top hat and the perennial lavender earmuffs. We could never understand
it but the newspapers said the next day that about fifty cases of color
blindness and shock were brought into the hospital raving about an
Aardvark with a top hat and earmuffs.

That was really a queer night. We started out at the Stork Club. Sherm
Billingsley had gotten wind of the Aardvark and had a special room
reserved with a wall knocked out for the elephant Rubin. The men were
practically fawning all over the Schwartz Valkyries who calmly broke
Champagne bottles over their heads and continued to stay by their
erstwhile pal, the Aardvark. After we had gotten well well placed
I looked at the Aardvark. He was holding sway like a royal Sultan,
complete with dancing girls. The young blade was surrounded by the
chorus line and was having a rough time with them. But he had eyes only
for the Schwartz sisters. They sat there exchanging guttural sounds.

After we got finished at the Stork we took in rapid succession the
Mocambo, the 21, 22, 23, 24, and 25 Clubs, the Noire Pansy Club, and
the Hi, Low, Top, and Homburg Hat Clubs.

About nine o'clock we were just about pooped out when we noticed that
we had lost Hawser someplace. It was quite a relief to us as he had
poured the contents of a potted palm over himself at the Noire Pansy
Club to make himself feel more at home and he had begun to reacquire
the odor that was peculiar only to his body.

It was then that Cassius remarked, "Look at the neighborhood we're in.
This is lower than low."

Truer than true were his words. We were in a neighborhood that looked
like the inside of a shell-shocked oyster shell. We were surrounded by
broken down houses and buildings that looked as though they had been
old when Moxie's Army was chewing on rattles. At the end of the street
that we were on was a building that was a little better; just a little.
By better, I mean it was standing. There was a sign over the door that
proceeded to tell us in no uncertain terms that this was the "Drunken
Cockroach Nightclub."

I was all for turning back as was Cassius Q, but the Valkyries, Olga
and Ketanya who had consumed a great deal of wine (they learned how in
Valhalla, they told us) ran on ahead and without a backward hiccough
vanished into the rickety building which threatened at any moment to
fall on their heads.

With a shrug to the Gods of Chance Rubin, Cassius and myself proceeded
to the Spirit Hostelry, or as you choose, Beer Parlor.

The inside of the Drunken Cockroach was worse than the outside. It
looked like a nightmare by Dali on a night when he had run out of
brushes and had started using his feet.

The bar, which ran across the back of the smoke-filled room, was of
a seasick green color while the walls were a burnt umber tinged with
beige. The floor was ornamented with a five-pointed star that showed
several crawly type animals such as the kind that "... go bump in the
night." They were of various hues and were, in all, quite sickening.
The bartender was the worst. A small sign above the door related to the
fact that he was Oliver Absinthe. He was not only repulsive, he was
nauseating. A large bald head encased in folds of pink flesh was what
surmounted the largest bay window in the country, outside of Rubin's.
He was wearing an apron that showed the demise of many a martini. There
were also spaghetti, dirt, milk, coffee, and gravy stains on the apron
besides a group of green blotches that I couldn't quite place. It
looked like the remains of last week's spinach.

Have you ever heard a sick Hippo tell you about his operation? Well,
if not try to imagine how it would sound, since that was what this
fellow's voice sounded like. "What's ya pleasure," he said.

"Nothing much," I answered, looking for a quick way to get out if it
was needed.

We seated ourselves in a booth next to the Valkyries who were fast at
work guzzling beer. Rubin just stood with one foot on the brass rail,
which at the application of his weight, bent. He ordered another double
double scotch and in one gulp downed it. It was then that the elephant
began screeching in an unelephantlike way and kicking himself in his
more than ample posterior. We started shaking him by the trunk and
asked him what the trouble was and he yelled that the last drink was
one too many. He was seeing pink people.

After this outburst I returned to the booth to see that the Aardvark
was gone. My attempts at locating him were halted suddenly by the
screaming of another person. It seems as though that evening was
open season on howling. The person yelling was Oliver Absinthe, the
bartender, who was yelling at Cassius who was in turn yelling and
alternately beating with his fists and a cuspidor, a slot machine that
was not acting in the way Cassius expected it to. With a resounding
howl the machine exploded showering colored lights, nickels, pieces of
wire, and an Aardvark at me. The last was caught by Ketanya Schwartz in
one hand while downing a beer with the other. Absinthe was jumping up
and down behind his seasick green bar while the rather shady looking
patrons were scrambling for the nickels.

Absinthe, who had been systematically withdrawing each strand of hair
from his chest (his head was bald), let loose a barrage of verbal
abuse that even singed my ears. Besides that, he let loose a string
of whiskey bottles that sailed across the room and felled, one at a
time, the clientele on the opposite side. The bodies began piling up
as Oliver the bartender became not only bald on his head, but upon his
barrel chest also. I for one dove for safety under the table, and there
was pleasantly surprised to find the half-pickled Olga Schwartz still
swilling spirits. I raised my head in time to see the Aardvark swinging
across the nearly-ruined room on the trunk of Rubin, who was sitting
in the middle of the floor hitting himself and repeating, "Go away, go
away." Giving out a sound like Tarzan with the gout, he flew through
the murky smoke-filled air and with a sidearm that would do Bob Feller
credit, hit the still-bellowing bartender a resounding clunk in the
cranium. Absinthe fell like a poled ox.

By this time there was much yelling and hollering by everyone within
a radius of two blocks. In the distance we heard the mournful wail
that signals the entrance of the blue coated gendarmes. With a
significant look we aroused Rubin, whose moustache had begun to droop
sadly, climbed upon his back, and amidst the clatter and crash of beer
bottles, escaped the "Drunken Cockroach Nightclub." Like I said, what a
night!


                               CHAPTER 6

                         NONE SO BLIND AS LOVE

These were the times. The good times that I still remember as I rock
back and forth before my fire. Eh? Whassat? Oh, yeah, less ruminating
and more expostulating. Heh, that's a good one, sonny, but don't be
gettin' flip with me ... old Smirtz can still tan the hide off'n any
young whipper snupper like you.

Well, anyhow, I had been making plans to put Cassius and his band into
a supra-super-colossal extravaganza that would out Florenz Ziegfeld.
It was about six months after that mad night at the Cockroach that
rehearsals were over, the show was prepared, the public waited with
bated breath and fish-hooks to see what had been the most highly touted
production in a decade.

Then that night.

I can remember it as if it were twelve years ago. (As a matter of fact,
it WAS twelve years ago). The marquees blazoned their messages to the
crowd that had formed a line _fourteen_ times around the block in front
of the Garden. New York had turned out en masse. And, as I said, those
marquees!

                         THE AARDVARK FOLLIES

    starring CASSIUS Q. AARDVARK with RUBIN, OLGA and KETANYA SCHWARTZ,
    MILTON BERLE, LAURENCE OLIVIER, LIONEL BIRDBATH and others

     an extravaganza to out-ganza all extras!! STANDING ROOM ONLY

How d'y'like that? SRO signs up, _and we hadn't even opened yet_!

Well, when that curtain rose and the Aardvark came out on the backs
of seventy raging rhinocerii, the crowd went into fits. And when the
Schwartz girls danced the dance of the 8-1/2 x 11 Kleenex, you could
have sworn that the rafters would buckle. And when Rubin did his
imitation of the president (Oh that imitation of _Mamie_!), the Garden
sounded as though 12 billion Zulus were singing, "TIDE'S in, Smirtz
out."

Thirteen weeks went by with two shows a day except when Cassy got
tired, and the money was rolling in. We had to save a box seat each
night for Impelliterri, otherwise the cops would have closed us down.
It wasn't exactly blackmail, I don't blame him a bit, that was one
helluva show.

However, all good things must come to an end.

We had signed on a pair of kids named ... uh ... what in the ... oh
yeah--yeah, that's it, Martin, for some fill-in stuff 'tween acts (we
had to let 'em go eventually. We found 'em carrying on with one of the
hat-check girls name of Monroe, or something. Oh well.) and Cass had
taken off a week to go down to Monte Carlo for some sun and air. That
year, the rage of the Riviera were two three-headed girls named Sally
Louise Lee Munglefootz and Gertrude Alice Roberta Hitslongle (they
called them SLL and GAR for short), and when they saw Cassius....

Well, it went on for three gay, mad days till I sent a wire back to New
York to tell Olga and Ketanya to get down to le ville de mazuma to save
Cass-boy from what might develop into a septangle.

SLL and GAR were entertaining Cass at a party one night, drinking
borscht from his sneakers, when who should drop in through a skylight
from a DC-6 but the Schwartz sisters who immediately began laying about
them with a pair of two-handed broadswords. Fifteen minutes and ninety
gallons of blood later the place was cleared of all sentience save
Cass, myself, the Schwartz girls, and a drunken cockroach (something
familiar about that boy) who immediately staggered to the seashore,
fell in and was poisoned to death.

Cassius, basking in such munificent attention, and also regaling
himself with the beauty of the two girls, immediately realized how
unhappy he really was in civilization. He pleaded on bended bodies for
forgiveness, and upon being received warmly by Olga and Ketanya, made
plans for his leaving "culture."

I didn't try to stop him.

What would'a been the use? I'd made enough to retire, Cass had seen the
World, Rubin had been adopted by some destitute family named DuPont who
wanted a house pet, and all in all, the only drawback was that I hated
to see him go.

But finally he chartered a plane (something about a sacred cow I
believe) and took off back to where he felt was home with the two
Schwartz valkyries.

Yep, that's the last anyone ever saw of 'em. That is, till now. Huh?
Where are they? And what am I doin' here? Well, you see I didn't figger
on taxes after the Show ... and I was broke in two months. That's what
I'm doin' here. Eh? Where are they?

Well, just ste-ep right up, ladeez and gennulmen, for onny twenny-fi'
cents I'm gonna show you a real, authentic, for-sure aardvark and two
girls frozen into a block of lemon flavored ice, right here in the
heart of the Swiss....

                               _The End_




                              THREE A. M.

                             by WALT KLEIN


    The clocks are all awry
    this hour of the secret
    night--the slender hands
    all aimless; the terrible, slender
    hands all fingering
    a different cipher, and the stars
    all reeling in their orbits.
      O time! time! time!

    Time and death have vanished
    this enchanted moment, forgotten,
    lost in the endless
    corridors of mind. But who--
    who will know tomorrow
    of this moment fleeing, lost?
      Wailing, wailing, wailing....

    The pendulum, rasping, drops,
    the door springs open,
    and a tinny voice shrieks:
      "Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Cuckoo!"




                           THE GOTHIC HORROR

                           BY GEORGE WETZEL


Quite often Penhryn had puzzled over the reasons Gothic arts were made
so hideous; every cathedral he had visited, every Gothic mss read,
even Medieval tapestry was cursed with this ubiquitous grotesqueness.
Once a medieval archaeologist told him it perhaps was the soul--ugly
and deformed--of the Age that tolerated it. Perhaps so. Certainly
there was a shocking parallel between it and the practices of the
witch covens that marked that period; a parallel that suggested many
hidden Satanists carved the wood and stone of the cathedrals. For did
not the same spirit of mockery and perversion of Mass ritual exist in
the gargoyles who leered atop cathedral parapets and from cornices and
recesses?

Even now, the tympanum Penhryn studied was such an example of that
blasphemy. A sly, cynical hint of bigotry, it seemed to him, was
expressed in the too closely crowded group of saints and reveling
demons. Another infamy like this present symbolism of the Elect and the
Damned, he recalled, once carved on the tympanum of Rheims Cathedral,
so shocked its 18th century clergy that they had it chiseled out.

His examination of the stone figures on the entrance arch was broken by
the verger, commenting pedantically on some IX century Saxon brickwork
in the wall. Penhryn stepped into the cathedral and a palpable sea of
silence which even the stone of sound (that was his footsteps) could
barely ripple. Mumbling about the church's reliquary, the verger
started off; and Penhryn, despite the verger's boresome presence,
decided to follow him.

Beneath tones of stone they passed, whose weight elfin Plantagenet
ribbed vaults appeared incapable of supporting. Reaching the Reliquary
in the gloom of the west transept arm, the verger unlocked it and
brought out of a chest therein the cathedral's mortuary wealth--the
remains of illustrious prelates and canonized saints--that reposed
in bejeweled, golden urns and containers. Dryly, the verger spoke of
dullsome abbots and obscure saints.

"This particular urn," said the verger, picking one manifestly no
different from the rest, "whose osseous contents are those of an early
saint, has a quaint history. In 1163 the Popish monks here gathered
some henbane found growing in their garden, mistaking it for a kind of
parsley."

Unimaginatively, he went on, relating--_despite_ his pedantic
manner--an interesting account of how those monks who did not eat of
it were woke that same midnight by the Matin's bell. And coming into
the cathedral read scrawled across the sacred books what was never
originally written there, saw written in chalk on the walls blasphemy,
and heard profane things uttered by those who had awakened them.

"The archives," said the verger, "are not explicit on the outrages;
though they did say how the drugged monks, for one thing, made a
mockery of Christian ritual by reverencing this urn."

At Penhryn's look of amazement, the verger smiled, reflected a bit, and
said: "Oh, we've had other misfortunes here, worse than that. Why the
west tower has come down four times since their time. And fires without
number are always breaking out and always had been." The verger went on
to recount other calamities suffered by the cathedral.

"Don't you think it odd," interrupted Penhryn, "such an uncommon number
of disasters has struck here?"

The verger pondered this a moment and then smiled triumphantly,
"Why, not at all. We have missed some serious misfortunes that have
plagued lesser churches.... Cromwell's troopers let us alone when they
desecrated other cathedrals about us."

"But Cromwell was a hidden Satanist," blurted out Penhryn. "At least
Montague Summers thought he was."

"Which is why," added the verger, "he and his Roundheads desecrated so
many British churches."

Penhryn desisted from further argument. The verger did not see he meant
his emphasis on the fact that Cromwell had left _this place_ inviolate.
He pondered a bit. Then, he asked the verger another question, "I
wonder--just what do the bones in that urn," he pointed to the one that
figured in the curious story of the drugged monks, "look like?"

A look of quizzical tolerance crossed the verger's face, "Just like any
other, if not dust already." Then the amused verger added, "They could
be fraudulent, you know. It wouldn't be the first time three thigh
bones of a saint existed in three separate churches."

Whet the verger referred to was the traffic in spurious relics during
the medieval times, the monstrous incongruities that sometimes existed
along with the monkish pilfering of relics from rival monasteries. But
that was not what Penhryn had in mind--at least not entirely. Better
he not voice what he thought of those relics lest he shock the verger.
Considering the spirit that motivated the Gothic decorations, it was
very likely just _what_ those relics might be.

At moment a man in faded overalls entered the cathedral, looked about,
and spying the verger, came over. A conversation about gardening
ensued. Finally, the gardener--quite obviously--not comprehending the
pedantic instructions of the verger, asked that person to accompany him
outside and see the vegetable problem himself. Penhryn breathed a deep
sigh of relief. The verger was a bore, besides openly regarding Penhryn
as a ridiculous, superstitious man.

Now at last Penhryn could do what he originally came for--examination
of the cathedral's organ. As he ascended to the triforium gallery, a
feeling of self reproach arose. He regretted remarking on the oddness
of this place; no wonder the verger had smiled. And yet there was
no denying of it--the cathedral had an atmosphere of wrongness; it
affected him.

Sunlight glorified the mosaic panes up here; and alternately, where
no window pierced the stone wall, a chill darkness lurked. Thrusting
up its ornate spires and pipes in perpendicular Gothic style was the
organ case beneath the oculus window. Dry dust assailed his nose as
he crawled behind the organ to examine its geometric world of square
and round pipes. Coming out, after a time, he paused to look over the
balustrade into the hollowed out nave below, and was seized with awe;
the Gothic craftsman had been clever, for their arboreal and animal
carvings on pew boards, corbel-tables, and moldings seemed living
things frozen in acts of motion, waiting for some mysterious summons
before they convulsed with life again.

Penhryn felt an oppressive sense of heat; and looking up, saw last,
lingering sunlight burning through a window. And the sainted figure
that looked down at him seemed to be twisting agonizingly, as though
its abode there was some fiery hell. The window frames were wrought
in sections resembling flame tongues--a feature similar to the French
Flamboyant Gothic style--which furthered the illusion that the window
opened into a fiery domain. And he speculated if flame tracery was
not also deliberately fashioned, along with the grotesqueness of the
Gothic carvings. Another thought, of imitative magic--at least the wish
it expressed--came to mind as he looked at the fiery window, and he
grew more uneasy. Quite suddenly he realized there was _some sort_ of
blistering warmth emanating from the window--too much for comfort--and
he retired into the gloom.

Raising his eyes upwards to the clerestory regions, he noted the
irregular alignment of the longitudinal axis, proof that a later repair
had been incorrectly engineered. While he studied this mistake, the
shifting sunlight retreated roofwards as darkness filled the depths
below, and he became aware of the long time he had browsed up here,
hoping it was not so long that the verger may have forgotten his
presence and locked him in. The thought terrified him--the spending of
a cold night here--but why he could not say, or else did not want to
dredge up the reason.

Hastening downwards he found his worst fears were true. The entrance
door had been locked. A kind of reasonless panic threatened to engulf
him--his theories about Gothic art were the blame--but by mimicking
the verger's pedantic cynicism, he kept a surface calm. Possibly he
could find a broken pane somewheres where he could shout out until
someone came. Penhryn had barely made up his mind when it happened.
Hitherto all was a canvas of dead silence but now a sound was brushed
across it. From the transept of the Reliquary it had come; and as he
turned in that direction he sensed, then saw, a stirring in the almost
impenetrable dark. Fear had called up that presence.

Memory was fragmentary after that. Some shock drove him to seek the
upper regions where a blur of light remained. A priceless stained glass
window was smashed. And he plunged to the ground outside. No questions
were asked him when days later he came out of a state of delirium. None
were needed; he had babbled disjointedly while in that state, enough to
cause the cathedral to be closed. An examination was made, discreetly,
of certain relics. Later the gardener was observed by some to cast a
small paper parcel into the river. And shortly afterwards several high
ranking clergymen held a private church service in the cathedral to
which no one was admitted. Though the more noisy spoke of hearing a
hand bell ring and ponderous Latin phrases uttered.

Penhryn's experience had blanks in it which was well for him. One
thing, not fully erased, was of a "face eaten away by darkness."
There was one final thing that, when he learned of it, sent him into
a paroxysm of horror. The investigators, taking much of his delirium
babbling into serious consideration, had medical examinations made
of the relics. One osseous remain--that which the drugged monks had
blasphemously reverenced--had been non-human and unhallowed; a spurious
relic passed off as genuine. The substitution was made obviously by a
hidden Satanist, mocking the Church, as the Gothic carvers had, and the
witch covens.

                               _The End_

       *       *       *       *       *

                               DIFFERENT

                       A Voice of the Atomic Age

    resumes publication at 79-14 266 St. Glen Oaks, Floral Park, Long
    Island, N. Y. Poetry and Science Fiction. $2.00 per year, fifty
    cents per copy. Lilith Lorraine, Editor.




                            AT TAKEOFF TIME

                         by Raymond L. Clancy


    I'd like to leave for the stars from Iceland,
    There where they gleam in purple and gold,
    In green and orange, and all gorgeous colors,
    And the Northern Lights their beauties unfold
    Under the eyes of Venus and Mars,
    From the Northern Isle, I would leave for the stars.




                              LOOSE ENDS

                             by JEAN REEDY


Ada Webster had a feeling of buoyance as she moved away from her
body. Sights and sounds were crystal clear. Each mote in the shaft of
sunlight, falling through the window pane, was sharply defined. Sounds
of the small city came acutely to her ears. Sounds of laughter and
talk and moving cars and busses. And closer, the rustle of a nurse's
starched uniform, the soft closing of a door as she went out.

In the room, quiet sobbing.

Tenderly the two beside the bed reached for the sheet and together they
covered the whole body.

Ada watched in amazement. Brother and sister! They had not seen each
other since girl and boy days. Now they were crying in each other's
arms.

Ada wished they would stop crying. Their crying made her feel guilty.
As though she were the cause of their unhappiness. Was she softening
toward Howard? She knew he was there before she left her body. Even
then, in her semi-coma, she had resented his presence. How did he know?
How did she sense his presence and know him? This tall, good looking
man with more grey than black in his hair did not resemble the boy she
had tried to forget. This well groomed man with the expensive clothes
and the charm of Ben, his father, but without the marks of dissipation.

The old bitterness flared. Why had Howard come, after a lifetime of
neglect? He'd soon know she left nothing. Anyhow, she would have left
_him_ nothing. She wished there were something for Ellie and her
boys--and Ted. If just a few keepsakes. But there was nothing--nothing.

Ada looked at the body under the sheet. It was not as old as some, in
years. Hard work rather than age had broken it down so that now it was
bent and wrinkled. Why, she could see clear through it! There was the
deformed hip bone! The one that had not been properly set after Ben
threw her down the stairs in one of his drunken rages. She was quite
young when that happened and all the rest of her life she walked with a
limp.

"Never again, Ada," Ben sobbed. "Never again will I take a drink."

She knew then that he was too weak-willed to keep the promise. She also
knew that she would always love him.

The babies had come too close. Howard. Several that she could not carry
to the full. Two still-born. Then Ellie. The twins, both dying after a
few weeks of sickly life. Doctor bills. Short rations. Ben, so abusive
when out of work and drinking. Ben, so sweet when working and sober.
Ben, who died in a charity ward many years ago.

It was before Ben died that Howard ran away from home.

"It's your fault, Ada," Ben accused when he sobered. "You took the
money he earned with his paper route."

"My fault!" Ada screamed. "I didn't take all his money. It was little
enough. I only took it when there was nothing in the house to eat."

"It's your fault. It's your fault," Ben repeated as though reciting
a lesson to himself. He raised bleary eyes to her stormy ones. "You
didn't tell him and he thought of it as stealing."

"He'll come back, Mother," said Ellie soothingly.

"He better _not_ come back," said Ada, fiercely. "Running away from
home! All this added disgrace! I had enough to bear before."

Howard never came back and Ada remembered how, in her stubborn
bitterness, she would not allow the mention of his name.

Now she studied the knees under the sheet. Yes, the swollen joints were
prominent. Scrubbing floors had done that to the knees that were once
round and dimpled. She thought it was the only work for her after Ben
died. She was not used to anything but housework.

Scrubbing floors was not bad. Without fear in the back of her mind she
could laugh and joke with the other scrub women when they met to eat a
midnight lunch in the tall building. She could sleep in her quiet room
without fear of being rudely awakened to appease a befuddled man and
guard against his attacks.

And she was independent!

When Ellie left her job as waitress to marry Ted Hayes they went into
a small house, just around the corner from the rooming house where Ada
lived.

"Come live with us, mother," said Ellie. "Ted wants you to."

"Oh, no!" Ada replied. "I'll have my own place, though it _is_ only one
room."

It was some years ago that Ellie went around with the letter. That time
stood out clearly for Ada. The young folks had not started their family
early. Then there were two boys, Carl and Alfred. Sometimes Ellie
brought the children to her mother's room. But that time she was alone.

Ellie was nervous and fidgety. "Mother, I want to tell you something,"
she said at last.

"Well, out with it," said Ada, impatiently.

Ellie drew the letter from her pocket. "Now don't flare up, Mother."
She tried to laugh.

"Stop fussing and come to the point."

Ellie took the letter from the envelope. "It's another letter from
Howard," she said timidly.

"Another!" cried Ada. "Have you heard from him before?"

"Y-y-yes. Please forgive him for leaving home and not writing for so
long. H-he wants to take care of you. He wants you to stop working."

"How does he know I'm working?"

"I told him. And that you won't come with us because you think you'll
be a burden on Ted. As if--"

"Oh! Squealing to your brother who did not write to us for half a life
time. The trouble and worry he caused me when he ran away! Having the
neighbors talk about us more than before! I'm ashamed of you, Ellie!
Where's your spunk?"

Ada remembered how patient Ellie was that day. How hard she tried to
explain. How she said: "Please! Howard wanted to make good before he
let us hear from him. He has been working for an archeologist of late
years. He travels all over the world with expeditions."

"Why didn't he say all this before?"

"He did. But I was afraid to tell you. You're so stubborn, Mother. Now
you are getting old and I think you should--"

Even now Ada recalled the hot flush of anger that crept over her. "You
take that letter out of here," she said.

"B-but--"

"If you ever mention his name again I'll forbid you to come here. And
don't you forget it."

"I won't forget it." Ellie had gone out, her pointed chin as firmly set
as her mother's.

That was the last mention of Howard and in Ada's senile years even the
memory of him was blurred.

She studied the hands under the sheet. The knobby joints, the callus.

How clever those hands could have been!

Even in her first grades in school she loved to sketch. But there was
no money to develop her talent.

And when Ben Webster came with his handsomeness and charm she didn't
care about it.

But later her talent helped her through many dark hours. With it she
could sometimes lighten fear and trouble by her own feeble attempts to
create. A funny face would appear on a brown shopping bag. A white box
lid became a winter scene. She remembered that in her floor scrubbing
years there was a time when she worked in a school house. How tempting
was the black-board when a piece of chalk had been carelessly left in
the trough! Once she had almost completed a picture of a city street
when a fellow employee poked her head around the half closed door.

Ada quickly smudged the picture with her floor cloth.

But the time came when she _had_ to stop work. No more would the old
joints bend and stretch.

Then Ellie came to her room one evening with determination in her eyes.
"I'm taking you to another home, Mother," she said, firmly.

Ada was too tired to protest. "Where?" she asked.

"Let's play a kind of game," said Ellie. "Close your eyes and I will
lead you."

Like a child Ada agreed. Before they left the rooming house that
had been her home for so many years she closed her eyes and put her
wrinkled hand into Ellie's. "Is it far?" she asked, trustingly.

"Not far, Mother. Don't look until I say so."

"I promise," laughed Ada.

A short walk and around a corner. Ada kept her promise, even when going
into another house and up the stairs.

Then Ellie said: "Open your eyes, Mother."

Ada looked and she was in the middle of a well lighted room. A thick
carpet was on the floor, bright paper on the wall, a luxurious bed room
suite, a roomy easy chair and beside it a radio.

"This is your room," Ellie said, softly.

Ada stared, speechless. Then Ted and Carl and Alfred crowded into the
room.

Ada's gaze went from one familiar face to the other before she realized
that she was in the front room of their house.

Once more flared the old independence. "B-but--all this. You can't
afford all this," she protested.

Ted put his arm around her shoulders. "A fellow can get a raise."

What blessed comfort to the old bones was the soft mattress, compared
to the lumpy one in her recent quarters. The fine wool blankets,
compared to the rough scratchy ones. The quilted gown to keep her
cozy when sitting on the big chair. The fleece-lined slippers for her
bunioned feet.

And now the last year stood out clearly. She had been in the
comfortable bed most of the time and there was a white clad nurse to
give her the best of care. There was no pain--just weakness. Frequently
there appeared a doctor. And the tray, filled with delicacies!
Everything she craved, in and out of season.

Like a child she had taken all this for granted but with great
enjoyment.

Now Ellie and Howard went slowly out of the room and Ada moved with
them. She realized that only a few minutes had passed since she began
to examine the body and bring it up to date.

The small living room on the first floor was cheerful with late
sunshine. Ellie partly closed the Venetian-blinds so that the corners
of the room were shadowed.

Howard went to the settee. "Let's talk a while, Sis," he said. "It's
been so long."

Ellie sat beside him. "All right. The boys will be home from school
soon and Ted gets home from work in an hour. That will be time enough
to make arrangements."

"I'll take care of the expenses," said Howard.

"Oh, thank you. But you've done so much."

"I can afford it. I wanted to--"

"I know." Ellie patted her brother's hand. "We had to trick her so that
you could do for her. It's too bad but that's the way it had to be. We
could never have given her the luxuries you provided."

To Ada the voices had a metallic sound, like the tinkle of silverbells.
So Howard was the one! He had taken care of her after all! No, if she
had known, her stubborn pride would not have allowed it. Somehow, pride
did not figure now. She knew that she had lost a lot through false
pride. The anger she had felt toward Howard was not there now--only
regret.

Ellie's voice went on. "I'm sorry mother was so far gone. I thought she
might rally and know you at the end."

"I came as soon as I got your wire," said Howard, sadly. "I'm glad I
was in this country. It's just as well she didn't know me. She didn't
want to see me." Then he brightened. "I'm so anxious to see your boys.
How old did you say they are?"

"Carl is twelve and Alfred is fourteen."

"Are they doing well in school?"

"Fair. Enough to get by. Like average boys. But Alfred--I don't know."

"What about Alfred?"

"He has a talent for sketching. Wants to go into commercial art.
It's funny, neither Ted nor I can draw a straight line. Ted wants
Alfred to learn a trade. He says we can't afford to give the boys
extra advantages. We still have a mortgage on this house. Ted had an
operation and lost a lot of time at the factory. It's always something."

Howard reached for his sister's hand. "Don't discourage the boy," he
said, "You folks are all I've got. I'll see that the boys get their
chance, if you and Ted will let me."

"Oh, Howard, you're sweet." Ellie brushed tears from her eyes.

Ada moved closer. She should have known about Alfred's talent but she
was always too tired to take an interest in the boy's studies. Yes,
Howard would take care of it. But _she_ had planted the seed of _her_
talent in Alfred. She had left something after all! And, through her
going, Howard would be close to this family for the rest of their lives.

"I can't believe I am back here after all those years," said Howard,
dreamily. "When I first left I was very homesick. But I could see no
future in this town. What chance did drunken Ben Webster's kid have
here? Yet, I knew that if I wrote to Mother and gave her a chance to
coax me back, I would come.

"I had ambition and I did not want to destroy it by coming back here. I
didn't know what I wanted to do then. But I knew that some day I would
find it." He searched Ellie's face. "Do you understand that, Sis?"

"Yes. I think so."

Ada understood also. The tinkling sound of his voice was like the
breaking of fine glass. The words came clear and almost before they
were spoken she had their meaning. The bitterness was ebbing and in its
place there was admiration.




                            A TIME TO LOVE

                         BY DON HOWARD DONNELL


Clark stretched his eighteen year old body luxuriously, rippling the
splendid muscles he had acquired from a vigorous, outdoor life. He
surveyed himself critically. He had just bathed in the icy lake nearby,
and the water droplets glistened in the soft mid-morning sun. Standing
there, as he felt the breeze dry him, he drank in the beauty of his
surroundings. As the sun plucked the moisture from his bronzed skin,
he listened attentively to the mocking birds nearby. The birds seemed
unaffected by the happenings of the past few years, and sang their song
so joyfully that Clark forgot for one happy moment, before memory crept
stealthily back into his forcibly matured mind. Slowly he put on his
ragged blue jeans, and settled down beneath an oak tree, losing himself
in observation of the countryside. The ever present, ever beautiful
grass marched stolidly, like long rows of soldiers.... No. Grass does
not kill, it must not be compared with soldiers, ever. Yet it marched,
rhythmically, in time to something.... Clark pushed the nearly blond,
sun-bleached hair out of his youthful, yet hard face, and played with
the sickle bladed grass. He pulled one and examined it closely. There
was a ladybug on it; he maneuvered it to his finger. A half-forgotten
rhyme came to his lips and bubbled into spoken verse:

"Ladybug, ladybug, fly away...." What came next? He thought hard, back,
back to his childhood to when everything was....

He nearly cried.

The hills came up from the morning mist, rough hewn and uneven,
reminiscent of a buzzsaw, yet, a buzzsaw did not accurately describe
them. They were a deep resplendent purple, streaked with white cold
veins. Behind them, gradually building up in the distance, were icy
mountains of majestic clouds. And all in all there were the bobbing,
bending wild flowers, in numbers and colors too numerous and vivid to
describe, with wild-honey honey bees like black buzzing dots, floating
from the daisy to the dandelion, pollenating, and birds darting across
the deep expanse of turquoise blue that was the sky. The warm, active,
late spring day tended to create a sense of security, no matter how
false, and his head fell to his chest, and he slept.

At first, it was only a subtle sensation, creeping from his thighs up
his body to the nerve centers of his brain. It was the vague feeling
of warmth, the kind that can only come from...! He was wide awake and
sat upright in the next second, looking into the heaven that was her
face....

"Well," she said in the voice that only she could possess, "am I _that_
ugly?" Badly off-balance, he stuttered around for something to say.

"Why ... or hardly. I mean...." He broke off as she started laughing.
"Am I that funny?" he said.

"Yes, silly," he giggled, "You should have seen the look on your face.
You didn't know what to say, did you?" He snorted and sat up.

"There's nothing to laugh about, girly. Wake a follow out of a sound--"
The last word was silenced for she leaned over and kissed him firmly on
the mouth. When he was sufficiently recovered he spoke:

"You work fast, don't you?" She cocked her head prettily, pushing the
brown chestnut hair out of her long oval face, and smiled a smile that
Venus herself would envy.

"Maybe you work slow," she said, not too seriously. She had finished
tying her hair behind her head, and her long, discriminately tanned
arms matched the extremely delicate, yet beautiful legs that showed
from the short, skirt-like affair that she wore. Her small mouth was
gently outlined by a light shaded lipstick which he knew to taste good.
It was the only cosmetic she wore, or needed to. He licked his lips
subconsciously. Her eyes were deep, large and colored to match the
wonderfully long hair that was tied in back. His appraising gaze soon
became a stare and she said:

"Do you like me?"

"Being no fool, little girl, I'll say I do, and it's not quite a fair
question, I don't even know your name."

"Dianne, if it will make you feel any better," she said softly as she
rose to a standing position.

Clark did mental somersaults. She couldn't be much more than sixteen,
yet her breasts bore the full aura of a woman, rising and falling,
graceful and full. The trim contours of her young body were sleek,
lithe lines of feminine muscle that were attractive, outlined through
the thin material of her clothes. He felt quite a lump in his throat,
the reason for this being that she filled out that age old form that
had enchanted the male from the time of the much maligned Adam to
Clark's furiously pounding heart.

"Damned if you're not pretty," he breathed in an undertone that was
more than complimentary.

"Thanks," she said in the high prim voice of a girl, and cocking her
head again, added; "and I still don't know your name."

"Clark, if it'll help any," he said. "How come ... uh, er. How did you
happen to find me?"

"I didn't find you, Clark, so deflate your ego a little. You just
happened to be here when I came."

"Come here every day, eh?" She smiled a deep pretty smile. Clark
noticed she had dimples.

"Every day," she said.

"Suddenly I begin to grow attached to this spot," he said softly, "very
attached." He looked at her for a long time, silent, then he said:

"Where do you live, Dianne?" Now it was she who became silent, and
didn't answer for a long interval. Clark became sober too, guessing the
reason for her silence.

"Bad memories?"

"Uh huh," she said in a subdued tone. "62 Blitz."

"My horror was the first Bomb. I saw the people around me cut to
ribbons by flying glass." The birds and the wind through the trees were
the only sounds, until, suddenly, she was in his arms, crying. He put
his arms around her, pressing her close, comforting himself as well as
her.

"Why? Why did it happen...? Oh Clark...." The bitterness of perhaps
many years flowed out in a flood of tears that seemed ceaseless.
Silently, Clark listened to her story. And it wasn't an unfamiliar one,
in fact commonplace, tragically commonplace.

Dianne, as many other countless millions of girls, had been ordinary;
the typical American maiden. (Clark could disagree with that.) She
has been living in Los Angeles when the war came and disturbed the
routine, the everyday life of everybody. Her parents had died in that
murderous '62 blitz, and left her homeless when she was about ten. When
civilization had crumbled, her own world gone, she found herself one of
the tearful few left, living in the hills around the devastated cities.
One of the very few. She had lived, just as Clark had, on Nature,
and had found it to be ... pleasant. Once in a while, she obtained
luxuries, such as cosmetics, soap and good clothing from one of the
deserted houses among the hills. It was an old story ... tragically old.

Dianne dried her eyes and looked beautiful, which wasn't hard. "I'm a
cry baby," she said bitterly.

"How long has it been since you've been with another person?"

Dianne sniffled. "About four years. I can't remember exactly."

"You're no cry baby kid, you've got a right to cry, and cry a helluva
lot." He put a finger under her chin, raised her face, and kissed her
lightly. "Hell! I haven't seen a girl in three years." She laughed.

"What about you, Romeo," she said. "How did the war affect your life?"
He sort of grinned, and leaned back against the tree, pulling her with
him.

"You know, I think it affected my life for the better. If it weren't
for the war, I night not have met you. It seems that I'm falling in
love with you already."

Dianne frowned. "Don't say that.... Don't say that you wanted the war,
think of the people that died ... your folks ... mine."

"It was coming, I didn't realize then, but it had to come. Man was too
far apart from Nature and Nature wanted him back...."

"That's silly."

"No, Dianne, no, it's not silly. Man lived in his concrete skyscraper,
above the earth ... complex, not simple. He lost his sense of good and
decency; he depended upon someone else for his food and well being. He
became soft. It had to come."

"Maybe you're right Clark, maybe," Dianne whispered, nestling close to
him warmly.

"I know I am," he said. He was aware of her in the crook of his arm,
and, he added, almost too softly to be heard, "I know."

"How about when you were little?" she softly enquired.

"Oh, nothing really. The only thing I remember clearly was the
Huntington Park Bomb that dropped on my tenth birthday."

"Birthday?"

"Yeah. Had a party going full blast when it hit. I remember it as a
sort of a thunder-clap and a bright flash in the sky. Then, amid the
screams of my playmates, came a wave of heat that prickled my skin
while flying glass cut everybody around me. I don't remember anything
very clear after that; guess I was in a state of shock or something.
After that, I wandered around, living and growing up with Nature. It's
been very pleasant ... though I haven't met many people until I saw
you, lucky day." She grinned.

"You've been through a lot," she said simply.

"We've all been through a lot. Maybe a lot more. Who knows? There's
always a few lunatics and degenerates wandering around after the
war ... ever been bothered by them?" Suddenly, she cringed, wrinkling
her face with revulsion, then swallowed hard.

"When I was about twelve...." She was nearly ready to cry again. She
pressed closer to Clark....

"Never mind," said Clark, "It's over now, don't think about it." Again
she was pouring out the sadness of many years of loneliness.

"I love you," said Clark. It was later in the day and they were still
in the same position. "I think I love you too," she said leaning back
on him. "It's strange," he breathed.

"A few years ago they'd call it puppy love. I'm sure this isn't. It
can't be, Dianne. The war has changed things. Before I met you, I
used to lay on the grass, staring up at stars thinking. Maybe that
civilization was finished, but man wasn't. He's a tough animal to kill
off. The future may lie in us, Dianne."

"You're being dramatic, Clark, we're not the only ones left; there are
plenty more people. In fact," she said suspiciously, "I am beginning to
doubt your intentions. My name is Dianne, not Eve."

"And mine's Clark, glad to know you." They laughed and settled down to
watch the sunset. "Where are you living?" asked Clark a little later.

"It's a cave over near the Santa Monica mountains."

"There? That's infested with a lot of renegades?" Dianne smiled.

"They're too stupid to look under their own noses." She sat up and
stretched. "Come up, I'll show you." She sprang up and began running,
her long hair streaming out behind her. Clark bounded after, at a
pace only youth and vigor could maintain. He soon caught her and they
both rested, laughingly. When the shadows were deep, they continued,
silently. Within an hour, they were at the cave.

"Well, I'll be damned!"

"It's cozy."

"No doubt. Now I begin to doubt your intentions, young lady." She
smiled and squelched him.

"I hope you're used to the hard cold ground, because that's where
you're sleeping. There is only one bed. Or you can go outside."

"Never mind, I've got a tough back. But allow me this; this cave's
pretty well concealed." The last was true. The cave was situated so
that it was invisible and nearly impregnable. A dense growth foliage
covered the entrance while the passage-way into the main chamber
twisted and turned so that light and smoke were diffused perfectly.

"Where ... how did you find it?" Dianne sat down on a makeshift bed and
began to braid her hair. She raised her eyes and said:

"When I was a little girl, my family came up here on Sundays to visit
my uncle. I used to play around in the hills while they were so
engrossed in their deep adult conversation. One day I just found it.
I didn't tell anybody about it, and used it for a secret hideaway ...
when the war came, I remembered it. Once in a while I go to my uncle's
house just over the rise for things I need, but most of the time I've
been here." She finished braiding her hair and leaned back on the bed.

"I lived in the open," Clark said moodily. "With the grass for a
mattress and the sky for cover." He glanced around, "I think I'll like
it here, better." Dianne raised an eyebrow.

"Keep the gleam out of your eyes or else you'll be roughing it again,"
she said jokingly. He laughed and sat down beside her.

"Where did you get the candles?" Clark motioned to several wax lumps
scattered about.

"Uncle liked them, so...."

"Yeah," she yawned. "Tired?" he asked.

"Very." There was a silence.

"Ever read the Bible?"

"Some."

"I remember a verse that I read a long time ago ... it sort of stuck in
my mind."

"Tell it to me, Clark, please."

"Sure." Clark licked his lips and recited his favorite verse into the
murky stillness of the room:

"To everything there is a season; and a time to every purpose under the
heavens;

"A time to be born and a time to die; a time to plant and a time to
pluck up that which is planted;

"A time to love and a time to hate; a time of war and a time of
peace...."

"Hmmm," she said lazily, "Where did you get that from?"

"Ecclesiastes."

"Nice." There was a long silence.

"Dianne?" There was no answer. He stood over the bed and saw that
she slept. He stood there a long time, just watching her, drinking
in her beauty. She was something he couldn't tear his eyes from. He
scratched his youthful stubble, and was aware that the candles were
low, casting a ruddy glow, deepening the shadows on her face, creasing
her ankles and thighs, accenting everything that needed to be accented,
and perfectly. Her breasts rose and fell to the even tempo of her
breathing. He walked over and blew out the candles, thoughtfully.

Clark stretched out full length on the rough floor of the cave using
his hands for pillows, staring straight into the blackness of the
ceiling. The ground felt good against his back. He grinned. Something
ran through his mind over and over again.

A time to love.... A time to love.... A time to love....

Soon, he slept.

The End




                             ASSAY REPORT


                     For the July-September issue:

    _PLACE_  _AUTHOR_            _STORY_                   _POINTS_
       1     Don Howard Donnell  I LOVE YOU, ROBERTA         1.57
       2     Tom Covington       A BIT PREMATURE             2.36
       3     J. S. Semens        I                           2.79
       4     Terry Carr          SUPER BOMB                  3.29

                              ... and the Nov.-Jan.:

       1     Larry Saundors      A PHONE IS RINGING          1.33
       2     Al Leverentz        TARRY THOU HERE             2.33
       3     Toby Duane          COLIN AND THE LEPRECHAUN    2.83
       4     Ken J. Krueger      SOLUTION T-400              3.50

For once, the ratings flowed in in a manner reminiscent of old
times--thanks to my consistent bewailing. There is no rating sheet
provided for your use in this issue, so I am not too hopeful about
the results. I hope, though, that you will fool me and send in your
story-preferences in volume. In the latter issue, the poem most liked
was VIGIL, by Isabelle E. Dinwiddie, and second was Toby Duane's THE
MAN-HEART.

In the next issue, you may definitely expect DeWeese's long story,
which was promised for this issue. Circumstances intervened, however.

                                                           --THE EDITOR




                                 NOVA


    A yellow star
    Burned wanly in the spreading dawn,
    Then died.

"Hello, Joe, how's the missus?"

                                                           "Fine, Bill.

Did you see the news?"

                                                       "No, what's up?"

"Something about a new bomb, K factor Of two hundred, whatever that
means."

 "Probably Nothing, they're always talking about new bombs, And anyway,
                                                     we're not at war."

"Well, I don't know, I hear this one's something new."

     "That's what they say about any new stuff. Remember the first Atom
                                                                 bomb?"

"Yeah, well there's nothing we can do, and like you said, we're not at war."

    A red star
    Burned fiercely in the black void,
    Then died.

                                                        --Keran O'Brien




                          THE SEA AT EVENING


    It was in the purple evening, as the moon rose on the sand,
    When I heard the restless waters calling me across the land;
    And I left the moors and meadows and the forests stretching free,
    Left the wind-swept fields behind me, and went down to meet the sea.

    How the surges roared to greet me, soared to meet me as I came!
    And it seemed that they were calling clearer, chorusing my name.
    When the moonlight on them glowing like the luster in a pearl
    And the sapphire dwelling in their depths, I saw the waves uncurl
    As they spread their crystal fingers, carving figures in the sand--
    That the sea had known and bounded, tales from every distant shore;
    And I knew that the enchantment would be with me evermore,
    That the restless roll and refluence would shackle me apart,
    For the sea was in my spirit, and its song was in my heart.

                                                         --Andrew Duane




                              TAVERN MOOD


    The melancholy
    faces drift in gloom like pale
    headlights through the fog.

                                                           --Walt Klein




                        WHAT THE CAT DRAGGED IN

    All letters for this column should be sent to Robert E. Briney, 561
    W. Western Avenue, Muskegon, Michigan. No letter should exceed 250
    words in length.

Dear Bob: Maybe you're wondering what my reaction was toward Saunders'
story, A PHONE IS RINGING. Well, I'm still wondering, too. I don't
know whether I liked it or whether I didn't. I'm perplexed. Before I
go any further, however, I must admit that the story held my interest.
The suspense was superbly executed. But when I read the ending, I
was disappointed. It seemed as if Saunders had a good idea in the
beginning ... but as the tale progressed, he forgot about it. He seemed
to be in too much of a rush to get it finished. And the ending struck
me----huh? I'm still saying "huh?" Perhaps I skipped a vital paragraph
in the story--I'll have to reread it one of these days and possibly my
"huh?" will change to an "Oh!" I don't know, though. The short-shorts,
I didn't care for, and as for Leverentz' column.... I cannot see how
he considers "The Crimson Pirate" as science-fiction. He creates an
argument that really isn't an argument. CP was a comedy, anyway, and
it was supposed to create a laugh, which it did.... This is the first
time I have heard it classed as science fiction. [If memory serves,
it was not Leverentz but the movie reviewer he quoted who classed
"Crimson Pirate" as science fiction, thus reflecting the public opinion
of sf.--Ed.] Not that science fiction is "respectable"--but Leverentz
should have chosen a better example to illustrate his point.----Joe
Semenovich, 155-07 71st Avenue, Flushing 67, New York. P.S.: In
SOLUTION T-400 there are 399 words! You're wrong, Ken, I took time to
count them.

[Judging from the following letter from Larry Saunders, we doubt that
you missed a vital point in A PHONE IS RINGING. In fact, you probably
noticed something that no one else has bothered to comment upon, and
which Larry mentions in his letter.--Ed.]

Dear Bob: An explanation for the confusion that probably resulted
from the appearance of A PHONE IS RINGING seems to be in order. I
wrote the story some years ago while I was under the influence of
Leiber, Bradbury, and Benet. When I submitted it to Paul, he accepted
it with reservations. In other words, he was confused. He suggested
that I might rewrite it and clear up a few points. This seemed like
a good idea. The fact remains that I am a lazy SOB, in other words a
typical fan, and I never did rewrite it for him. Its appearance in
the Nov.-Jan. issue of F-F thus came as a complete and utter surprise
to me. I was both pleased and embarrassed. Embarrassed because the
story is a confused mess. As it stands, I know what's going on but the
readers do not--a situation which should not be allowed to happen.
Rather than offer you my full explanation of PHONE, I offer you my
apology instead. Ghu forgive me. ### Toby Duane's COLIN AND THE
LEPRECHAUN was well-written and capably handled. Ken Krueger's SOLUTION
T-400 was an amusing play on words. The best item was Al Leverentz'
TARRY THOU HERE, which though unoriginal, was masterfully pulled-off.
INTRANSIGEANT impressed me with its Nietzschean bitterness. Can't say
that I agree with him.... Who gives a faint, unheated damn whether sf
is "respectable" or not? If I want to read something respectable I can
turn to Dostoyevsky, Balzac, Dickens, Hardy, or even Nietzsche. As for
the song RUDOLPH--well I can't stand it either, but not for the same
reason. The song just is no good--it stinks. The majority of commercial
songs do. I listened to this tripe all my life and it had no apparent
affect on me. I just outgrew it. Now instead of the current Hit Parade,
it's Brahms, Bruckner, Mahler, Handel, Nielson, Strauss, etc.----Larry
Saunders, 170 Washington Avenue, Stamford, Connecticut.

Cheerio: About the matter of Al Leverentz' red-nosed reindeer. This
is a version of Rudolph's birth that I picked up somewhere, I don't
remember just where, but it sounds only too true. You might check with
Bob Bloch--he's in the advertising business and will probably know the
score. ### My understanding is that the song was deliberately written a
few Christmasses ago to promote Sears-Roebuck merchandise. [Am inclined
to think it was Montgomery Ward rather than Sears--I can remember
when the first rash of that Rudolph bilge came out.--Ed.] Some bright
advertising genius sold that company a package deal: a song to do the
plugging, and "Rudolph" toys, books, soap, clothing, etc. It worked
very well, too, with perhaps hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of
junk being palmed off on the kids and their helpless parents. ### That
sort of promoting is done all the time to sell many products. When one
of George Pal's interplanetary movies, WHEN WORLDS COLLIDE, was being
readied for the theaters, one of the movie trade journals I subscribe
to reported that Paramount had arranged to plant an article on how the
picture was made, in ASTOUNDING. And that's just what happened. At
least, friend Campbell printed it. ### Meanwhile, they've got a new
picture coming up next May, WAR OF THE WORLDS, and the publicity men
are bust again. One of them has been in contact with me, getting names
and addresses of both pro and fan magazines, so there's no telling what
kind of propaganda barrage is about to come our way!----Bob Tucker,
P.O. Box 702, Bloomington, Illinois.

Dear Bob: I'm a little confused about the Lovecraft Collectors'
Library. On the contents page of F-F it states that one volume has been
published and there are six more to go, the set to sell for $2.25.
On page 18, it says the set will consist of six volumes and sell for
$1.20. I'd like to get the set, but ... well, could you clear up the
confusion? And what about GROTESQUE? I'd like to sub, but how much does
it cost and how often is it published?----Richard Billings, 610 E.
Street, North Wilkesboro, North Carolina.

[The true state of affairs with regard to the Lovecraft Library is as
follows: there are seven volumes in the set, one of which has been
published and a second of which is about to appear. Price for the set
of seven is $2.25, or 35¢ per volume if purchased separately. As for
GROTESQUE: as was stated in F-F, the magazine is now defunct, due to
the induction of the editor into the Army. The first three issues of
the magazine, however, are still available from the editor of FAN-FARE
@ 50¢. Take it from us, they are well worth getting!--Ed.]

Dear Bob: On the pleasant side of the ledger, the fiction. A PHONE IS
RINGING----a rather excellently integrated yarn. A certain resource of
technique and imagination definitely present. TARRY THOU HERE--well
done. Maybe I had better say no more, except that to the best of
my knowledge my reason for the placing of this story is entirely
aesthetic. COLIN & THE LEPRECHAUN--clever. SOLUTION T-400--this is a
story? The title was good enough as a pun, but that was about the best
part of the whole thing. ### Now for the CAT. If this were the only
communication I ever received from Al Leverentz (direct or indirect),
I would think him a terrible fellow indeed. Actually, he seems to be
a rather nice guy. However, I can't let a challenge of this magnitude
go by without some response. Case I: My reaction is entirely wrong.
Conclusion: Al was deducing entirely too much from my short remarks,
and his lack of acquaintance with my personality at the time. Case
II: Al is completely wrong. Conclusion: of my remarks in preceding
FAN-FARE. I probably erred in the direction of charity. Case III:
Article fails insofar as it led to individual interpretations on the
part of the reader--interpretations which were false, but _please!_ not
maliciously so. Conclusion: Al errs by excess in his reaction. This
I think is the most probable. There may be many more positions, but
I think I've covered the ground sufficiently. Now that the fiery one
is in the Army, it may not be just to get the last word by default,
but there seemed no other course. I trust Al Leverentz will forgive
me.--Keran O'Brien, 186-29 Avon Road, Jamaica 32, New York.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FAN FARE MAY 1953 ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


