The Project Gutenberg eBook of The star-stealers
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The star-stealers

Author: Edmond Hamilton

Release date: April 21, 2024 [eBook #73442]

Language: English

Original publication: Indianapolis, IN: Popular Fiction Publishing Company, 1929

Credits: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STAR-STEALERS ***





                           THE STAR-STEALERS

                          By EDMOND HAMILTON

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                    Weird Tales May, February 1929.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


As I stepped into the narrow bridgeroom the pilot at the controls there
turned toward me, saluting.

"Alpha Centauri dead ahead, sir," he reported.

"Turn thirty degrees outward," I told him, "and throttle down to eighty
light-speeds until we've passed the star."

Instantly the shining levers flicked back under his hands, and as I
stepped over to his side I saw the arrows of the speed-dials creeping
backward with the slowing of our flight. Then, gazing through the broad
windows which formed the room's front side, I watched the interstellar
panorama ahead shifting sidewise with the turning of our course.

The narrow bridgeroom lay across the very top of our ship's long,
cigar-like hull, and through its windows all the brilliance of the
heavens around us lay revealed. Ahead flamed the great double star of
Alpha Centauri, two mighty blazing suns which dimmed all else in the
heavens, and which crept slowly sidewise as we veered away from them.
Toward our right there stretched along the inky skies the far-flung
powdered fires of the Galaxy's thronging suns, gemmed with the crimson
splendors of Betelgeuse and the clear brilliance of Canopus and the hot
white light of Rigel. And straight ahead, now, gleaming out beyond the
twin suns we were passing, shone the clear yellow star that was the
sun of our own system.

It was the yellow star that I was watching, now, as our ship fled on
toward it at eighty times the speed of light; for more than two years
had passed since our cruiser had left it, to become a part of that
great navy of the Federation of Stars which maintained peace over
all the Galaxy. We had gone far with the fleet, in those two years,
cruising with it the length and breadth of the Milky Way, patrolling
the space-lanes of the Galaxy and helping to crush the occasional
pirate ships which appeared to levy toll on the interstellar commerce.
And now that an order flashed from the authorities of our own solar
system had recalled us home, it was with an unalloyed eagerness that we
looked forward to the moment of our return. The stars we had touched
at, the peoples of their worlds, these had been friendly enough toward
us, as fellow-members of the great Federation, yet for all their
hospitality we had been glad enough to leave them. For though we had
long ago become accustomed to the alien and unhuman forms of the
different stellar races, from the strange brain-men of Algol to the
birdlike people of Sirius, their worlds were not human worlds, not
the familiar eight little planets which swung around our own sun, and
toward which we were speeding homeward now.

While I mused thus at the window the two circling suns of Alpha
Centauri had dropped behind us, and now, with a swift clicking of
switches, the pilot beside me turned on our full speed. Within a few
minutes our ship was hurtling on at almost a thousand light-speeds,
flung forward by the power of our newly invented de-transforming
generators, which could produce propulsion-vibrations of almost a
thousand times the frequency of the light-vibrations. At this immense
velocity, matched by few other craft in the Galaxy, we were leaping
through millions of miles of space each second, yet the gleaming yellow
star ahead seemed quite unchanged in size.

Abruptly the door behind me clicked open to admit young Dal Nara,
the ship's second-officer, descended from a long line of famous
interstellar pilots, who grinned at me openly as she saluted.

"Twelve more hours, sir, and we'll be there," she said.

I smiled at her eagerness. "You'll not be sorry to get back to our
little sun, will you?" I asked, and she shook her head.

"Not I! It may be just a pin-head beside Canopus and the rest, but
there's no place like it in the Galaxy. I'm wondering, though, what
made them call us back to the fleet so suddenly."

My own face clouded, at that. "I don't know," I said, slowly. "It's
almost unprecedented for any star to call one of its ships back from
the Federation fleet, but there must have been some reason----"

"Well," she said cheerfully, turning toward the door, "it doesn't
matter what the reason is, so long as it means a trip home. The crew
is worse than I am--they're scrapping the generators down in the
engine-room to get another light-speed out of them."

I laughed as the door clicked shut behind her, but as I turned back
to the window the question she had voiced rose again in my mind, and
I gazed thoughtfully toward the yellow star ahead. For as I had told
Dal Nara, it was a well-nigh unheard-of thing for any star to recall
one of its cruisers from the great fleet of the Federation. Including
as it did every peopled star in the Galaxy, the Federation relied
entirely upon the fleet to police the interstellar spaces, and to
that fleet each star contributed its quota of cruisers. Only a last
extremity, I knew, would ever induce any star to recall one of its
ships, yet the message flashed to our ship had ordered us to return to
the solar system at full speed and report at the Bureau of Astronomical
Knowledge, on Neptune. Whatever was behind the order, I thought, I
would learn soon enough, for we were now speeding over the last lap of
our homeward journey; so I strove to put the matter from my mind for
the time being.

With an odd persistence, though, the question continued to trouble
my thoughts in the hours that followed, and when we finally swept in
toward the solar system twelve hours later, it was with a certain
abstractedness that I watched the slow largening of the yellow
star that was our sun. Our velocity had slackened steadily as we
approached that star, and we were moving at a bare one light-speed
when we finally swept down toward its outermost, far-swinging planet,
Neptune, the solar system's point of arrival and departure for all
interstellar commerce. Even this speed we reduced still further as we
sped past Neptune's single circling moon and down through the crowded
shipping-lanes toward the surface of the planet itself.

Fifty miles above its surface all sight of the planet beneath was shut
off by the thousands of great ships which hung in dense masses above
it--that vast tangle of interstellar traffic which makes the great
planet the terror of all inexperienced pilots. From horizon to horizon,
it seemed, the ships crowded upon each other, drawn from every quarter
of the Galaxy. Huge grain-boats from Betelgeuse, vast, palatial liners
from Arcturus and Vega, ship-loads of radium ores from the worlds that
circle giant Antares, long, swift mail-boats from distant Deneb--all
these and myriad others swirled and circled in one great mass above
the planet, dropping down one by one as the official traffic-directors
flashed from their own boats the brilliant signals which allowed a
lucky one to descend. And through occasional rifts in the crowded
mass of ships could be glimpsed the interplanetary traffic of the
lower levels, a swarm of swift little boats which darted ceaselessly
back and forth on their comparatively short journeys, ferrying crowds
of passengers to Jupiter and Venus and Earth, seeming like little
toy-boats beside the mighty bulks of the great interstellar ships above
them.

As our own cruiser drove down toward the mass of traffic, though, it
cleared away from before us instantly; for the symbol of the Federation
on our bows was known from Canopus to Fomalhaut, and the cruisers of
its fleet were respected by all the traffic of the Galaxy. Arrowing
down through this suddenly opened lane we sped smoothly down toward the
planet's surface, hovering for a moment above its perplexing maze of
white buildings and green gardens, and then slanting down toward the
mighty flat-roofed building which housed the Bureau of Astronomical
Knowledge. As we sped down toward its roof I could not but contrast
the warm, sunny green panorama beneath with the icy desert which the
planet had been until two hundred thousand years before, when the
scientists of the solar system had devised the great heat-transmitters
which catch the sun's heat near its blazing surface and fling it out
as high-frequency vibrations to the receiving-apparatus on Neptune,
to be transformed back into the heat which warms this world. In a
moment, though, we were landing gently upon the broad roof, upon which
rested scores of other shining cruisers whose crews stood outside them
watching our arrival.

Five minutes later I was whirling downward through the building's
interior in one of the automatic little cone-elevators, out of which I
stepped into a long white corridor. An attendant was awaiting me there,
and I followed him down the corridor's length to a high black door at
its end, which he threw open for me, closing it behind me as I stepped
inside.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was an ivory-walled, high-ceilinged room in which I found myself,
its whole farther side open to the sunlight and breezes of the green
gardens beyond. At a desk across the room was sitting a short-set man
with gray-streaked hair and keen, inquiring eyes, and as I entered he
sprang up and came toward me.

"Ran Rarak!" he exclaimed. "You've come! For two days, now, we've been
expecting you."

"We were delayed off Aldebaran, sir, by generator trouble," I replied,
bowing, for I had recognized the speaker as Hurus Hol, chief of the
Bureau of Astronomical Knowledge. Now, at a motion from him, I took a
chair beside the desk while he resumed his own seat.

A moment he regarded me in silence, and then slowly spoke. "Ran Rarak,"
he said, "you must have wondered why your ship was ordered back here to
the solar system. Well, it was ordered back for a reason which we dared
not state in an open message, a reason which, if made public, would
plunge the solar system instantly into a chaos of unutterable panic!"

He was silent again for a moment, his eyes on mine, and then went on.
"You know, Ran Rarak, that the universe itself is composed of infinite
depths of space in which float great clusters of suns, star-clusters
which are separated from each other by billions of light-years of
space. You know, too, that our own cluster of suns, which we call the
Galaxy, is roughly disklike in shape, and that our own particular
sun is situated at the very edge of this disk. Beyond lie only those
inconceivable leagues of space which separate us from the neighboring
star-clusters, or island-universes, depths of space never yet crossed
by our own cruisers or by anything else of which we have record.

"But now, at last, something has crossed those abysses, is crossing
them; since over three weeks ago our astronomers discovered that
a gigantic dark star is approaching our Galaxy from the depths of
infinite space--a titanic, dead sun which their instruments showed to
be of a size incredible, since, dark and dead as it is, it is larger
than the mightiest blazing suns in our own Galaxy, larger than Canopus
or Antares or Betelgeuse--a dark, dead star millions of times larger
than our own fiery sun--a gigantic wanderer out of some far realm of
infinite space, racing toward our Galaxy at a velocity inconceivable!

"The calculations of our scientists showed that this speeding dark
star would not race into our Galaxy but would speed past its edge, and
out into infinite space again, passing no closer to our own sun, at
that edge, than some fifteen billion miles. There was no possibility
of collision or danger from it, therefore; and so though the approach
of the dark star is known to all in the solar system, there is no idea
of any peril connected with it. But there is something else which has
been kept quite secret from the peoples of the solar system, something
known only to a few astronomers and officials. And that is that during
the last few weeks the path of this speeding dark star has changed from
a straight path to a curving one, that it is curving inward toward the
edge of our Galaxy and will now pass our own sun, in less than twelve
weeks, at a distance of less than three billion miles, instead of
fifteen! And when this titanic dead sun passes that close to our own
sun there can be but one result. Inevitably our own sun will be caught
by the powerful gravitational grip of the giant dark star and carried
out with all its planets into the depths of infinite space, never to
return!"

Hurus Hol paused, his face white and set, gazing past me with wide,
unseeing eyes. My brain whirling beneath the stunning revelation, I sat
rigid, silent, and in a moment he went on.

"If this thing were known to all," he said slowly, "there would be an
instant, terrible panic over the solar system, and for that reason
only a handful have been told. Flight is impossible, for there are not
enough ships in the Galaxy to transport the trillions of the solar
system's population to another star in the four weeks that are left
to us. There is but one chance--one blind, slender chance--and that
is to turn aside this onward-thundering dark star from its present
inward-curving path, to cause it to pass our sun and the Galaxy's edge
far enough away to be harmless. And it is for this reason that we
ordered your return.

"For it is my plan to speed out of the Galaxy into the depths of
outer space to meet this approaching dark star, taking all of the
scientific apparatus and equipment which might be used to swerve it
aside from this curving path it is following. During the last week
I have assembled the equipment for the expedition and have gathered
together a force of fifty star-cruisers which are even now resting on
the roof of this building, manned and ready for the trip. These are
only swift mail-cruisers, though, specially equipped for the trip, and
it was advisable to have at least one battle-cruiser for flag-ship of
the force, and so your own was recalled from the Federation fleet. And
although I shall go with the expedition, of course, it was my plan to
have you yourself as its captain.

"I know, however, that you have spent the last two years in the service
of the Federation fleet; so if you desire, another will be appointed to
the post. It is one of danger--greater danger, I think, than any of us
can dream. Yet the command is yours, if you wish to accept it."

Hurus Hol ceased, intently scanning my face. A moment I sat silent,
then rose and stepped to the great open window at the room's far side.
Outside stretched the greenery of gardens, and beyond them the white
roofs of buildings, gleaming beneath the faint sunlight. Instinctively
my eyes went up to the source of that light, the tiny sun, small and
faint and far, here, but still--the sun. A long moment I gazed up
toward it, and then turned back to Hurus Hol.

"I accept, sir," I said.

He came to his feet, his eyes shining. "I knew that you would," he
said, simply, and then: "All has been ready for days, Ran Rarak. We
start at once."

Ten minutes later we were on the broad roof, and the crews of our
fifty ships were rushing to their posts in answer to the sharp alarm
of a signal-bell. Another five minutes and Hurus Hol, Dal Nara and I
stood in the bridgeroom of my own cruiser, watching the white roof
drop behind and beneath as we slanted up from it. In a moment the
half-hundred cruisers on that roof had risen and were racing up behind
us, arrowing with us toward the zenith, massed in a close, wedge-shaped
formation.

Above, the brilliant signals of the traffic-boats flashed swiftly,
clearing a wide lane for us, and then we had passed through the jam of
traffic and were driving out past the incoming lines of interstellar
ships at swiftly mounting speed, still holding the same formation with
the massed cruisers behind us.

Behind and around us, now, flamed the great panorama of the Galaxy's
blazing stars, but before us lay only darkness--darkness inconceivable,
into which our ships were flashing out at greater and greater speed.
Neptune had vanished, and far behind lay the single yellow spark
that was all visible of our solar system as we fled out from it.
Out--out--out--rocketing, racing on, out past the boundaries of the
great Galaxy itself into the lightless void, out into the unplumbed
depths of infinite space to save our threatened sun.




2


Twenty-four hours after our start I stood again in the bridgeroom,
alone except for the silent, imperturbable figure of my ever-watchful
wheelman, Nal Jak, staring out with him into the black gulf that lay
before us. Many an hour we had stood side by side thus, scanning the
interstellar spaces from our cruiser's bridgeroom, but never yet had my
eyes been confronted by such a lightless void as lay before me now.

Our ship, indeed, seemed to be racing through a region where light was
all but non-existent, a darkness inconceivable to anyone who had never
experienced it. Behind lay the Galaxy we had left, a great swarm of
shining points of light, contracting slowly as we sped away from it.
Toward our right, too, several misty little patches of light glowed
faintly in the darkness, hardly to be seen; though these, I knew, were
other galaxies or star-clusters like our own--titanic conglomerations
of thronging suns dimmed to those tiny flickers of light by the
inconceivable depths of space which separated them from ourselves.

Except for these, though, we fled on through a cosmic gloom that was
soul-shaking in its deepness and extent, an infinite darkness and
stillness in which our ship seemed the only moving thing. Behind
us, I knew, the formation of our fifty ships was following close on
our track, each ship separated from the next by a five hundred mile
interval and each flashing on at exactly the same speed as ourselves.
But though we knew they followed, our fifty cruisers were naturally
quite invisible to us, and as I gazed now into the tenebrous void ahead
the loneliness of our position was overpowering.

Abruptly the door behind me snapped open, and I half turned toward it
as Hurus Hol entered. He glanced at our speed-dials, and his brows
arched in surprize.

"Good enough," he commented. "If the rest of our ships can hold this
pace it will bring us to the dark star in six days."

I nodded, gazing thoughtfully ahead. "Perhaps sooner," I estimated.
"The dark star is coming toward us at a tremendous velocity, remember.
You will notice on the telechart----"

Together we stepped over to the big telechart, a great rectangular
plate of smoothly burnished silvery metal which hung at the
bridgeroom's end-wall, the one indispensable aid to interstellar
navigation. Upon it were accurately reproduced, by means of projected
and reflected rays, the positions and progress of all heavenly bodies
near the ship. Intently we contemplated it now. At the rectangle's
lower edge there gleamed on the smooth metal a score or more of little
circles of glowing light, of varying sizes, representing the suns
at the edge of the Galaxy behind us. Outermost of these glowed the
light-disk that was our own sun, and around this Hurus Hol had drawn a
shining line or circle lying more than four billion miles from our sun,
on the chart. He had computed that if the approaching dark star came
closer than that to our sun its mighty gravitational attraction would
inevitably draw the latter out with it into space; so the shining line
represented, for us, the danger-line. And creeping down toward that
line and toward our sun, farther up on the blank metal of the great
chart, there moved a single giant circle of deepest black, an ebon disk
a hundred times the diameter of our glowing little sun-circle, which
was sweeping down toward the Galaxy's edge in a great curve.

Hurus Hol gazed thoughtfully at the sinister dark disk, and then shook
his head. "There's something very strange about that dark star," he
said, slowly. "That curving path it's moving in is contrary to all the
laws of celestial mechanics. I wonder if----"

Before he could finish, the words were broken off in his mouth. For at
that moment there came a terrific shock, our ship dipped and reeled
crazily, and then was whirling blindly about as though caught and
shaken by a giant hand. Dal Nara, the pilot, Hurus Hol and I were
slammed violently down toward the bridgeroom's end with the first
crash, and then I clung desperately to the edge of a switch-board as we
spun dizzily about. I had a flashing glimpse, through the windows, of
our fifty cruisers whirling blindly about like wind-tossed straws, and
in another glimpse saw two of them caught and slammed together, both
ships smashing like egg-shells beneath the terrific impact, their crews
instantly annihilated. Then, as our own ship dipped crazily downward
again, I saw Hurus Hol creeping across the floor toward the controls,
and in a moment I had slid down beside him. Another instant and we
had our hands on the levers, and were slowly pulling them back into
position.

Caught and buffeted still by the terrific forces outside, our cruiser
slowly steadied to an even keel and then leapt suddenly forward again,
the forces that held us seeming to lessen swiftly as we flashed on.
There came a harsh, grating sound that brought my heart to my throat as
one of the cruisers was hurled past us, grazing us, and then abruptly
the mighty grip that held us had suddenly disappeared and we were
humming on through the same stillness and silence as before.

I slowed our flight, then, until we hung motionless, and then we
gazed wildly at each other, bruised and panting. Before we could give
utterance to the exclamations on our lips, though, the door snapped
open and Dal Nara burst into the bridgeroom, bleeding from a cut on her
forehead.

"What was that?" she cried, raising a trembling hand to her head. "It
caught us there like toys--and the other ships----"

Before any of us could answer her a bell beside me rang sharply and
from the diaphragm beneath it came the voice of our message-operator.

"Ships 37, 12, 19 and 44 reported destroyed by collisions, sir," he
announced, his own voice tremulous. "The others report that they are
again taking up formation behind us."

"Very well," I replied. "Order them to start again in three minutes, on
Number One speed-scale."

As I turned back from the instrument I drew a deep breath. "Four ships
destroyed in less than a minute," I said. "And by _what_?"

"By a whirlpool of ether-currents, undoubtedly," said Hurus Hol. We
stared at him blankly, and he threw out a hand in quick explanation.
"You know that there are currents in the ether--that was discovered
ages ago--and that those currents are responsible for light-drift and
similar phenomena. All such currents in the Galaxy have always been
found to be comparatively slow and sluggish, but out here in empty
space there must be currents of gigantic size and speed, and apparently
we stumbled directly into a great whirlpool or maelstrom of them. We
were fortunate to lose but four ships," he added soberly.

I shook my head. "I've sailed from Sirius to Rigel," I said, "and I
never met anything like that. And if we meet another----"

The strangeness of our experience, in fact, had unnerved me, for even
after we had tended to our bruises and were again racing on through
the void, it was with a new fearfulness that I gazed ahead. At any
moment, I knew, we might plunge directly into some similar or even
larger maelstrom of ether-currents, yet there was no way by which we
could avoid the danger. We must drive blindly ahead at full speed and
trust to luck to bring us through, and now I began to understand what
perils lay between us and our destination.

As hour followed hour, though, my fearfulness gradually lessened, for
we encountered no more of the dread maelstroms in our onward flight.
Yet as we hummed on and on and on, a new anxiety came to trouble me,
for with the passing of each day we were putting behind us billions of
miles of space, and were flashing nearer and nearer toward the mighty
dark star that was our goal. And even as we fled on we could see, on
the great telechart, the dark disk creeping down to meet us, thundering
on toward the Galaxy from which, unless we succeeded, it would steal a
star.

Unless we succeeded! But could we succeed? Was there any force in the
universe that could turn aside this oncoming dark giant in time to
prevent the theft of our sun? More and more, as we sped on, there grew
in my mind doubt as to our chance of success. We had gone forth on a
blind, desperate venture, on a last slender chance, and now at last I
began to see how slender indeed was that chance. Dal Nara felt it, too,
and even Hurus Hol, I think, but we spoke no word to each other of our
thoughts, standing for hours on end in the bridgeroom together, and
gazing silently and broodingly out into the darkness where lay our goal.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the sixth day of our flight we computed, by means of our telechart
and flight-log, that we were within less than a billion miles of the
great dark star ahead, and had slackened our speed until we were
barely creeping forward, attempting to locate our goal in the dense,
unchanged darkness ahead.

Straining against the windows, we three gazed eagerly forward, while
beside me Nal Jak, the wheelman, silently regulated the ship's speed to
my orders. Minutes passed while we sped on, and still there lay before
us only the deep darkness. Could it be that we had missed our way,
that our calculations had been wrong? Could it be--and then the wild
speculations that had begun to rise in my mind were cut short by a low
exclamation from Dal Nara, beside me. Mutely she pointed ahead.

At first I could see nothing, and then slowly became aware of a feeble
glow of light in the heavens ahead, an area of strange, subdued light
which stretched across the whole sky, it seemed, yet which was so dim
as to be hardly visible to our straining eyes. But swiftly, as we
watched it, it intensified, strengthened, taking shape as a mighty
circle of pale luminescence which filled almost all the heavens ahead.
I gave a low-voiced order to the pilot which reduced our speed still
further, but even so the light grew visibly stronger as we sped on.

"Light!" whispered Hurus Hol. "Light on a dark star! It's
impossible--and yet----"

And now, in obedience to another order, our ship began to slant sharply
up toward the mighty circle's upper limb, followed by the half-hundred
ships behind us. And as we lifted higher and higher the circle changed
before our eyes into a sphere--a tremendous, faintly glowing sphere
of size inconceivable, filling the heavens with its vast bulk, feebly
luminous like the ghost of some mighty sun, rushing through space to
meet us as we sped up and over it. And now at last we were over it,
sweeping above it with our little fleet at a height of a half-million
miles, contemplating in awed silence the titanic dimensions of the
faint-glowing sphere beneath us.

For in spite of our great height above it, the vast globe stretched
from horizon to horizon beneath us, a single smooth, vastly curving
surface, shining with the dim, unfamiliar light whose source we could
not guess. It was not the light of fire, or glowing gases, for the sun
below was truly a dead one, vast in size as it was. It was a _cold_
light, a faint but steady phosphorescence like no other light I had
ever seen, a feeble white glow which stretched from horizon to horizon
of the mighty world beneath. Dumfoundedly we stared down toward it,
and then, at a signal to the pilot, our ship began to drop smoothly
downward, trailed by our forty-odd followers behind. Down, down, we
sped, slower and slower, until we suddenly started as there came from
outside the ship a high-pitched hissing shriek.

[Illustration: "The vast globe stretched from horizon to horizon
beneath them."]

"Air!" I cried. "This dark star has an atmosphere! And that light upon
it--see!" And I flung a pointing hand toward the surface of the giant
world below. For as we dropped swiftly down toward that world we saw
at last that the faint light which illuminated it was not artificial
light, or reflected light, but light inherent in itself, since all
the surface of the mighty sphere glowed with the same phosphorescent
light, its plains and hills and valleys alike feebly luminous, with the
soft, dim luminosity of radio-active minerals. A shining world, a world
glowing eternally with cold white light, a luminous, titanic sphere
that rushed through the darkness of infinite space like some pale,
gigantic moon. And upon the surface of the glowing plains beneath us
rose dense and twisted masses of dark, leafless vegetation, distorted
tree-growths and tangles of low shrubs that were all of deepest black
in color, springing out of that glowing soil and twisting blackly and
grotesquely above its feeble light, stretching away over plain and
hill and valley like the monstrous landscape of some undreamed-of hell!

And now, as our ship slanted down across the surface of the glowing
sphere, there gleamed ahead a deepening of that glow, a concentration
of that feeble light which grew stronger as we raced on toward it. And
it was a city! A city whose mighty buildings were each a truncated
pyramid in shape, towering into the air for thousands upon thousands
of feet, a city whose every building and street and square glowed with
the same faint white light as the ground upon which they stood, a
metropolis out of nightmare, the darkness of which was dispelled only
by the light of its own great glowing structures and streets. Far away
stretched the mass of those structures, a luminous mass which covered
square mile upon square mile of the surface of this glowing world, and
far beyond them there lifted into the dusky air the shining towers and
pyramids of still other cities.

We straightened, trembling, turning toward each other with white faces.
And then, before any could speak, Dal Nara had whirled to the window
and uttered a hoarse shout. "Look!" she cried, and pointed down and
outward toward the titanic, glowing buildings of the city ahead; for
from their truncated summits were rising suddenly a swarm of long black
shapes, a horde of long black cones which were racing straight up
toward us.

I shouted an order to the pilot, and instantly our ship was turning and
slanting sharply upward, while around us our cruisers sped up with us.
Then, from beneath, there sped up toward us a shining little cylinder
of metal which struck a cruiser racing beside our own. It exploded
instantly into a great flare of blinding light, enveloping the cruiser
it had struck, and then the light had vanished, while with it had
vanished the ship it had enveloped. And from the cones beneath and
beyond there leapt toward us other of the metal cylinders, striking
our ships now by the dozens, flaring and vanishing with them in great,
silent explosions of light.

"Etheric bombs!" I cried. "And our ship is the only battle-cruiser--the
rest have no weapons!"

I turned, cried another order, and in obedience to it our own cruiser
halted suddenly and then dipped downward, racing straight into the
ascending swarm of attacking cones. Down we flashed, down, down, and
toward us sprang a score of the metal cylinders, grazing along our
sides. And then, from the sides of our own downward-swooping ship there
sprang out brilliant shafts of green light, the deadly de-cohesion ray
of the ships of the Federation Fleet. It struck a score of the cones
beneath and they flamed with green light for an instant and then flew
into pieces, spilling downward in a great shower of tiny fragments as
the cohesion of their particles was destroyed by the deadly ray. And
now our cruiser had crashed down through the swarm of them and was
driving down toward the luminous plain below, then turning and racing
sharply upward again while from all the air around us the black cones
swarmed to the attack.

Up, up, we sped, and now I saw that our blow had been struck in vain,
for the last of our ships above were vanishing beneath the flares of
the etheric bombs. One only of our cruisers remained, racing up toward
the zenith in headlong flight with a score of the great cones in hot
pursuit. A moment only I glimpsed this, and then we had turned once
more and were again diving down upon the attacking cones, while all
around us the etheric bombs filled the air with the silent, exploding
flares. Again as we swooped downward our green rays cut paths of
annihilation across the swarming cones beneath; and then I heard a cry
from Hurus Hol, whirled to the window and glimpsed above us a single
great cone that was diving headlong down toward us in a resistless,
ramming swoop. I shouted to the pilot, sprang to the controls, but was
too late to ward off that deadly blow. There was a great crash at the
rear of our cruiser; it spun dizzily for a moment in midair, and then
was tumbling crazily downward like a falling stone toward the glowing
plain a score of miles below.




3


I think now that our cruiser's mad downward plunge must have lasted
for minutes, at least, yet at the time it seemed over in a single
instant. I have a confused memory of the bridgeroom spinning about us
as we whirled down, of myself throwing back the controls with a last,
instinctive action, and then there came a ripping, rending crash, a
violent shock, and I was flung into a corner of the room with terrific
force.

Dazed by the swift action of the last few minutes I lay there
motionless for a space of seconds, then scrambled to my feet. Hurus Hol
and Dal Nara were staggering up likewise, the latter hastening at once
down into the cruiser's hull, but Nal Jak, the wheelman, lay motionless
against the wall, stunned by the shock. Our first act was to bring him
back to consciousness by a few rough first-aid measures, and then we
straightened and gazed about us.

Apparently our cruiser's keel was resting upon the ground, but was
tilted over at a sharp angle, as the slant of the room's floor
attested. Through the broad windows we could see that around our
prostrate ship lay a thick, screening grove of black tree-growths
which we had glimpsed from above, and into which we had crashed in
our mad plunge downward. As I was later to learn, it was only the
shock-absorbing qualities of the vegetation into which we had fallen,
and my own last-minute rush to the controls, which had slowed our fall
enough to save us from annihilation.

There was a buzz of excited voices from the crew in the hull beneath
us, and then I turned at a sudden exclamation from Hurus Hol, to find
him pointing up through the observation-windows in the bridgeroom's
ceiling. I glanced up, then shrank back. For high above were circling a
score or more of the long black cones which had attacked us, and which
were apparently surveying the landscape for some clue to our fate.
I gave a sharp catch of indrawn breath as they dropped lower toward
us, and we crouched with pounding hearts while they dropped nearer.
Then we uttered simultaneous sighs of relief as the long shapes above
suddenly drove back up toward the zenith, apparently certain of our
annihilation, massing and wheeling and then speeding back toward the
glowing city from which they had risen to attack us.

We rose to our feet again, and as we did so the door clicked open to
admit Dal Nara. She was a bruised, disheveled figure, like the rest of
us, but there was something like a grin on her face.

"That cone that rammed us shattered two of our rear
vibration-projectors," she announced, "but that was all the damage. And
outside of one man with a broken shoulder the crew is all right."

"Good!" I exclaimed. "It won't take long to replace the broken
projectors."

She nodded. "I ordered them to put in two of the spares," she
explained. "But what then?"

I considered for a moment. "None of our other cruisers escaped, did
they?" I asked.

Dal Nara slowly shook her head. "I don't think so," she said. "Nearly
all of them were destroyed in the first few minutes. I saw Ship 16
racing up in an effort to escape, heading back toward the Galaxy, but
there were cones hot after it and it couldn't have got away."

The quiet voice of Hurus Hol broke in upon us. "Then we alone can take
back word to the Federation of what is happening here," he said. His
eyes suddenly flamed. "Two things we know," he exclaimed. "We know
that this dark star's curving path through space, which will bring it
so fatally near to our own sun in passing, is a path contrary to all
the laws of astronomical science. And we know now, too, that upon this
dark-star world, in those glowing cities yonder, live beings of some
sort who possess, apparently, immense intelligence and power."

My eyes met his. "You mean----" I began, but he interrupted swiftly.

"I mean that in my belief the answer to this riddle lies in that
glowing city yonder, and that it is there we must go to find that
answer."

"But how?" I asked. "If we take the cruiser near it they'll sight us
and annihilate us."

"There is another way," said Hurus Hol. "We can leave the cruiser and
its crew hidden here, and approach the city on foot--get as near to it
as possible--learn what we can about it."

I think that we all gasped at that suggestion, but as I quickly
revolved it in my mind I saw that it was, in reality, our only chance
to secure any information of value to take back to the Federation. So
we adopted the idea without further discussion and swiftly laid our
plans for the venture. At first it was our plan for only us three to
go, but at Dal Nara's insistence we included the pilot in our party,
the more quickly because I knew her to be resourceful and quick-witted.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two hours we spent in sleep, at the suggestion of Hurus Hol, then
ate a hasty meal and looked to our weapons, small projectors of the
de-cohesion ray similar to the great ray-tubes of the cruiser. Already
the ship's two shattered vibration-projectors had been replaced by
spares, and our last order was for the crew and under-officers to
await our return without moving beyond the ship in any event. Then the
cruiser's hull-door snapped open and we four stepped outside, ready for
our venture.

The sandy ground upon which we stood glowed with the feeble white light
which seemed to emanate from all rock and soil on this strange world,
a weird light which beat upward upon us instead of down. And in this
light the twisted, alien forms of the leafless trees around us writhed
upward into the dusky air, their smooth black branches tangling and
intertwining far above our heads. As we paused there Hurus Hol reached
down for a glowing pebble, which he examined intently for a moment.

"Radio-active," he commented. "All this glowing rock and soil." Then he
straightened, glanced around, and led the way unhesitatingly through
the thicket of black forest into which our ship had fallen.

Silently we followed him, in single file, across the shining soil and
beneath the distorted arches of the twisted trees, until at last we
emerged from the thicket and found ourselves upon the open expanse
of the glowing plain. It was a weird landscape which met our eyes, a
landscape of glowing plains and shallow valleys patched here and there
with the sprawling thickets of black forest, a pale, luminous world
whose faint light beat feebly upward into the dusky, twilight skies
above. In the distance, perhaps two miles ahead, a glow of deeper light
flung up against the hovering dusk from the massed buildings of the
luminous city, and toward this we tramped steadily onward, over the
shining plains and gullies and once over a swift little brook whose
waters glowed as they raced like torrents of rushing light. Within an
hour we had drawn to within a distance of five hundred feet from the
outermost of the city's pyramidal buildings, and crouched in a little
clump of dark tree-growths, gazing fascinatedly toward it.

[Illustration: "It was a weird landscape that met their eyes."]

The scene before us was one of unequaled interest and activity. Over
the masses of huge, shining buildings were flitting great swarms of
the long black cones, moving from roof to roof, while in the shining
streets below them moved other hordes of active figures, the people
of the city. And as our eyes took in these latter I think that we all
felt something of horror, in spite of all the alien forms which we were
familiar with in the thronging worlds of the Galaxy.

For in these creatures was no single point of resemblance to anything
human, nothing which the appalled intelligence could seize upon as
familiar. Imagine an upright cone of black flesh, several feet in
diameter and three or more in height, supported by a dozen or more
smooth long tentacles which branched from its lower end--supple,
boneless octopus-arms which held the cone-body upright and which served
both as arms and legs. And near the top of that cone trunk were the
only features, the twin tiny orifices which were the ears and a single
round and red-rimmed white eye, set between them. Thus were these
beings in appearance, black tentacle-creatures, moving in unending
swirling throngs through streets and squares and buildings of their
glowing city.

Helplessly we stared upon them, from our place of concealment. To
venture into sight, I knew, would be to court swift death. I turned to
Hurus Hol, then started as there came from the city ahead a low, waxing
sound-note, a deep, powerful tone of immense volume which sounded out
over the city like the blast of a deep-pitched horn. Another note
joined it, and another, until it seemed that a score of mighty horns
were calling across the city, and then they died away. But as we looked
now we saw that the shining streets were emptying, suddenly, that
the moving swarms of black tentacle-creatures were passing into the
pyramidal buildings, that the cones above were slanting down toward the
roofs and coming to rest. Within a space of minutes the streets seemed
entirely empty and deserted, and the only sign of activity over all the
city was the hovering of a few cones that still moved restlessly above
it. Astounded, we watched, and then the explanation came suddenly to me.

"It's their sleep-period!" I cried. "Their night! These things must
rest, must sleep, like any living thing, and as there's no night on
this glowing world those horn-notes must signal the beginning of their
sleep-period."

Hurus Hol was on his feet, his eyes suddenly kindling. "It's a chance
in a thousand to get inside the city!" he exclaimed.

The next moment we were out of the shelter of our concealing trees and
were racing across the stretch of ground which separated us from the
city. And five minutes later we were standing in the empty, glowing
streets, hugging closely the mighty sloping walls of the huge buildings
along it.

At once Hurus Hol led the way directly down the street toward the
heart of the city, and as we hastened on beside him he answered to my
question, "We must get to the city's center. There's something there
which I glimpsed from our ship, and if it's what I think----"

He had broken into a run, now, and as we raced together down the bare
length of the great, shining avenue, I, for one, had an unreassuring
presentiment of what would happen should the huge buildings around
us disgorge their occupants before we could get out of the city.
Then Hurus Hol had suddenly stopped short, and at a motion from him
we shrank swiftly behind the corner of a pyramid's slanting walls.
Across the street ahead of us were passing a half-dozen of the
tentacle-creatures, gliding smoothly toward the open door of one of the
great pyramids. A moment we crouched, holding our breath, and then the
things had passed inside the building and the door had slid shut behind
them. At once we leapt out and hastened on.

We were approaching the heart of the city, I judged, and ahead the
broad, shining street we followed seemed to end in a great open space
of some sort. As we sped toward it, between the towering luminous lines
of buildings, a faint droning sound came to our ears from ahead, waxing
louder as we hastened on. The clear space ahead was looming larger,
nearer, now, and then as we raced past the last great building on the
street's length we burst suddenly into view of the opening ahead and
stepped, staring dumfoundedly toward it.

It was no open plaza or square, but a pit--a shallow, circular pit not
more than a hundred feet in depth but all of a mile in diameter, and
we stood at the rim or edge of it. The floor was smooth and flat, and
upon that floor there lay a grouped mass of hundreds of half-globes
or hemispheres, each fifty feet in diameter, which were resting upon
their flat bases with their curving sides uppermost. Each of these
hemispheres was shining with light, but it was very different light
from the feeble glow of the buildings and streets around us, an
intensely brilliant blue radiance which was all but blinding to our
eyes. From these massed, radiant hemispheres came the loud droning we
had heard, and now we saw, at the pit's farther edge, a cylindrical
little room or structure of metal which was supported several hundred
feet above the pit's floor by a single slender shaft of smooth round
metal, like a great bird-cage. And toward this cage-structure Hurus Hol
was pointing now, his eyes flashing.

"It's the switch-board of the thing!" he cried. "And these brilliant
hemispheres--the unheard-of space-path of this dark star--it's all
clear now! All----"

He broke off, suddenly, as Nal Jak sprang back, uttering a cry and
pointing upward. For the moment we had forgotten the hovering cones
above the city, and now one of them was slanting swiftly downward,
straight toward us.

We turned, ran back, and the next moment an etheric bomb crashed down
upon the spot where we had stood, exploding silently in a great flare
of light. Another bomb fell and flared, nearer, and then I turned with
sudden fierce anger and aimed the little ray-projector in my hand at
the hovering cone above. The brilliant little beam cut across the dark
shape; the black cone hovered still for a moment, then crashed down
into the street to destruction. But now, from above and beyond, other
cones were slanting swiftly down toward us, while from the pyramidal
buildings beside us hordes of the black tentacle-creatures were pouring
out in answer to the alarm.

In a solid, resistless swarm they rushed upon us. I heard a yell of
defiance from Dal Nara, beside me, the hiss of our rays as they clove
through the black masses in terrible destruction, and then they were
upon us. A single moment we whirled about in a wild mêlée of men and
cone-creatures, of striking human arms and coiling tentacles; then
there was a shout of warning from one of my friends, something hard
descended upon my head with crushing force, and all went black before
me.




4


Faint light was filtering through my eyelids when I came back to
consciousness. As I opened them I sat weakly up, then fell back.
Dazedly I gazed about me. I was lying in a small, square room lit only
by its own glowing walls and floor and ceiling, a room whose one side
slanted steeply upward and inward, pierced by a small barred window
that was the only opening. Opposite me I discerned a low door of metal
bars, or grating, beyond which lay a long, glowing-walled corridor.
Then all these things were suddenly blotted out by the anxious face of
Hurus Hol, bending down toward me.

"You're awake!" he exclaimed, his face alight. "You know me, Ran Rarak?"

For answer I struggled again to a sitting position, aided by the arm of
Dal Nara, who had appeared beside me. I felt strangely weak, exhausted,
my head throbbing with racing fires.

"Where are we?" I asked, at last. "The fight in the city--I remember
that--but where are we now? And where's Nal Jak?"

The eyes of my two friends met and glanced away, while I looked
anxiously toward them. Then Hurus Hol spoke slowly.

"We are imprisoned in this little room in one of the great pyramids of
the glowing city," he said. "And in this room you have lain for weeks,
Ran Rarak."

"Weeks?" I gasped, and he nodded. "It's been almost ten weeks since we
were captured there in the city outside," he said, "and for all that
time you've lain here out of your head from that blow you received,
sometimes delirious and raving, sometimes completely unconscious. And
in all that time this dark star, this world, has been plunging on
through space toward our Galaxy, and our sun, and the theft and doom
of that sun. Ten more days and it passes our sun, stealing it from the
Galaxy. And I, who have learned at last what forces are behind it all,
lie prisoned here.

"It was after we four were brought to this cell, after our capture,
that I was summoned before our captors, before a council of those
strange tentacle-creatures which was made up, I think, of their own
scientists. They examined me, my clothing, all about me, then sought to
communicate with me. They do not speak--communicating with each other
by telepathy--but they strove to enter into communication with me by a
projection of pictures on a smooth wall, pictures of their dark star
world, pictures of our own Galaxy, our own sun--picture after picture,
until at last I began to understand the drift of them, the history and
the purpose of these strange beings and their stranger world.

"For ages, I learned, for countless eons, their mighty sun had flashed
through the infinities of space, alone except for its numerous planets
upon which had risen these races of tentacle-creatures. Their sun
was flaming with life, then, and on their circling planets they had
attained to immense science, immense power, as their system rolled on,
a single wandering star, through the depths of uncharted space. But as
the slow eons passed, the mighty sun began to cool, and their planets
to grow colder and colder. At last it had cooled so far that to revive
its dying fires they dislodged one of their own planets from its orbit
and sent it crashing into their sun, feeding its waning flames. And
when more centuries had passed and it was again cooling they followed
the same course, sending another planet into it, and so on through the
ages, staving off the death of their sun by sacrificing their worlds,
until at last but one planet was left to them. And still their sun was
cooling, darkening, dying.

"For further ages, though, they managed to preserve a precarious
existence on their single planet by means of artificial
heat-production, until at last their great sun had cooled and
solidified to such a point that life was possible upon its dark, dead
surface. That surface, because of the solidified radio-active elements
in it, shone always with pale light, and to it the races of the
tentacle-creatures now moved. By means of great air-current projectors
they transferred the atmosphere of their planet to the dark star itself
and then cast loose their planet to wander off into space by itself,
for its orbit had become erratic and they feared that it would crash
into their own great dark star world, about which it had revolved. But
on the warm, shining surface of the great dark star they now spread
out and multiplied, raising their cities from its glowing rock and
clinging to its surface as it hurtled on and on and on through the dark
infinities of trackless space.

"But at last, after further ages of such existence, the tentacle-races
saw that again they were menaced with extinction, since in obedience
to the inexorable laws of nature their dark star was cooling still
further, the molten fires at its center which warmed its surface
gradually dying down, while that surface became colder and colder. In
a little while, they knew, the fires at its center would be completely
dead, and their great world would be a bitter, frozen waste, unless
they devised some plan by which to keep warm its surface.

"At this moment their astronomers came forward with the announcement
that their dark-star world, plunging on through empty space, would
soon pass a great star-cluster or Galaxy of suns at a distance of
some fifteen billion miles. They could not invade the worlds of this
Galaxy, they knew, for they had discovered that upon those worlds
lived countless trillions of intelligent inhabitants who would be able
to repel their own invasion, if they attempted it. There was but one
expedient left, therefore, and that was to attempt to jerk a sun out of
this Galaxy as they passed by it, to steal a star from it to take out
with them into space, which would revolve around their own mighty dark
world and supply it with the heat they needed.

"The sun which they fixed on to steal was one at the Galaxy's very
edge, our own sun. If they passed this at fifteen billion miles, as
their course then would cause them to do, they could do nothing. But
if they could change their dark star's course, could curve inward to
pass this sun at some three billion miles instead of fifteen, then the
powerful gravitational grip of their own gigantic world would grasp
this sun and carry it out with it into space. The sun's planets, too,
would be carried out, but these they planned to crash into the fires of
the sun itself, to increase its size and splendor. All that was needed,
therefore, was some method of curving their world's course inward, and
for this they had recourse to the great gravity-condensers which they
had already used to shift their own planets.

"You know that it is gravitational force alone which keeps the suns and
planets to their courses, and you know that the gravitational force of
any body, sun or planet, is radiated out from it in all directions,
tending to pull all things toward that body. In the same way there is
radiated outward perpetually from the Galaxy the combined attractive
gravitational force of all its swarming suns, and a tiny fraction of
this outward-radiating force, of course, struck the dark star, pulling
it weakly toward the Galaxy. If more of that outward-radiating force
could strike the dark star, it would be pulled toward the Galaxy with
more power, would be pulled nearer toward the Galaxy's edge, as it
passed.

"It was just that which their gravity-condenser accomplished. In a
low pit at the heart of one of their cities--this city, in fact--they
placed the condenser, a mass of brilliant hemispherical ray-attracters
which caused more of the Galaxy's outward-shooting attractive force
to fall upon the dark star, which condensed and concentrated that
radiating force upon the dark star, thereby pulling the dark star
inward toward the Galaxy's edge in a great curve. When they reached a
distance of three billion miles from the Galaxy's edge they planned
to turn off the great condenser, and their dark star would then shoot
past the Galaxy's edge, jerking out our sun with it, from that edge,
by its own terrific gravitational grip. If the condenser were turned
off before they came that close, however, they would pass the sun at
a distance too far to pull it out with them, and would then speed on
out into space alone, toward the freezing of their world and their own
extinction. For that reason the condenser, and the great cage-switch of
the condenser, were guarded always by hovering cones, to prevent its
being turned off before the right moment.

"Since then they have kept the great gravity-condenser in unceasing
operation, and their dark star has swept in toward the Galaxy's edge
in a great curve. Back in our own solar system I saw and understood
what would be the result of that inward curve, and so we came here--and
were captured. And in those weeks since we were captured, while you
have lain here unconscious and raving, this dark star has been plunging
nearer and nearer toward our Galaxy and toward our sun. Ten more days
and it passes that sun, carrying it out with it into the darkness of
boundless space, unless the great condenser is turned off before then.
Ten more days, and we lie here, powerless to warn any of what forces
work toward the doom of our sun!"

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a long silence when Hurus Hol's voice had ceased--a
whispering, brain-crushing silence which I broke at last with a single
question.

"But Nal Jak----?" I asked, and the faces of my two companions became
suddenly strange, while Dal Nara turned away. At last Hurus Hol spoke.

"It was after the tentacle-scientists had examined me," he said gently,
"that they brought Nal Jak down to examine. I think that they spared me
for the time being because of my apparently greater knowledge, but Nal
Jak they--vivisected."

There was a longer hush than before, one in which the brave, quiet
figure of the wheelman, a companion in all my service with the fleet,
seemed to rise before my suddenly blurring eyes. Then abruptly I swung
down from the narrow bunk on which I lay, clutched dizzily at my
companions for support, and walked unsteadily to the square, barred
little window. Outside and beneath me lay the city of the dark-star
people, a mighty mass of pyramidal, glowing buildings, streets thronged
with their dark, gliding figures, above them the swarms of the racing
cones. From our little window the glowing wall of the great pyramid
which held us slanted steeply down for fully five hundred feet, and
upward above us for twice that distance. And as I raised my eyes upward
I saw, clear and bright above, a great, far-flung field of stars--the
stars of our own Galaxy toward which this world was plunging. And
burning out clearest among these the star that was nearest of all, the
shining yellow star that was our own sun.

I think now that it was the sight of that yellow star, largening
steadily as our dark star swept on toward it, which filled us with such
utter despair in the hours, the days, that followed. Out beyond the
city our cruiser lay hidden in the black forest, we knew, and could we
escape we might yet carry word back to the Federation of what was at
hand, but escape was impossible. And so, through the long days, days
measurable only by our own time-dials, we waxed deeper into an apathy
of dull despair.

Rapidly my strength came back to me, though the strange food supplied
us once a day by our captors was almost uneatable. But as the days fled
by, my spirits sank lower and lower, and less and less we spoke to each
other as the doom of our sun approached, the only change in any thing
around us being the moment each twenty-four hours when the signal-horns
called across the city, summoning the hordes in its streets to
their four-hour sleep-period. At last, though, we woke suddenly to
realization of the fact that nine days had passed since my awakening,
and that upon the next day the dark star would be plunging past the
burning yellow star above us and jerking it into its grip. Then, at
last, all our apathy dropped from us, and we raged against the walls
of our cells with insensate fury. And then, with startling abruptness,
came the means of our deliverance.

       *       *       *       *       *

For hours there had been a busy clanging of tools and machines
somewhere in the great building above us, and numbers of the
tentacle-creatures had been passing our barred door carrying tools and
instruments toward some work being carried out overhead. We had come to
pay but little attention to them, in time, but as one passed there came
a sudden rattle and clang from outside, and turning to the door we saw
that one of the passing creatures had dropped a thick coil of slender
metal chain upon the floor and had passed on without noticing his loss.

In an instant we were at the door and reaching through its bars toward
the coil, but though we each strained our arms in turn toward it the
thing lay a few tantalizing inches beyond our grasp. A moment we
surveyed it, baffled, fearing the return at any moment of the creature
who had dropped it, and then Dal Nara, with a sudden inspiration, lay
flat upon the floor, thrusting her leg out through the grating. In a
moment she had caught the coil with her foot, and in another moment we
had it inside, examining it.

We found that though it was as slender as my smallest finger the
chain was of incredible strength, and when we roughly estimated the
extent of its thick-coiled length we discovered that it would be more
than long enough to reach from our window to the street below. At
once, therefore, we secreted the thing in a corner of the room and
impatiently awaited the sleep-period, when we could work without fear
of interruption.

At last, after what seemed measureless hours of waiting, the great
horns blared forth across the city outside, and swiftly its streets
emptied, the sounds in our building quieting until all was silence,
except for the humming of a few watchful cones above the great
condenser, and the deep droning of the condenser itself in the
distance. At once we set to work at the bars of our window.

Frantically we chipped at the rock at the base of one of the metal
bars, using the few odd bits of metal at our command, but at the end of
two hours had done no more than scratch away a bare inch of the glowing
stone. Another hour and we had laid bare from the rock the lower end
of the bar, but now we knew that within minutes the sleep-period
of the city outside would be ending, and into its streets would be
swarming its gliding throngs, making impossible all attempts at escape.
Furiously we worked, dripping now with sweat, until at last when our
time-dials showed that less than half an hour remained to us I gave
over the chipping at the rock and wrapped our chain firmly around the
lower end of the bar we had loosened. Then stepping back into the cell
and bracing ourselves against the wall below the window, we pulled
backward with all our strength.

A tense moment we strained thus, the thick bar holding fast, and then
abruptly it gave and fell from its socket in the wall to the floor,
with a loud, ringing clang. We lay in a heap on the floor, panting and
listening for any sound of alarm, then rose and swiftly fastened the
chain's end to one of the remaining bars. The chain itself we dropped
out of the window, watching it uncoil its length down the mighty
building's glowing side until its end trailed on the empty glowing
street far below. At once I motioned Hurus Hol to the window, and in a
moment he had squeezed through its bars and was sliding slowly down
the chain, hand under hand. Before he was ten feet down Dal Nara was
out and creeping downward likewise, and then I too squeezed through the
window and followed them, downward, the three of us crawling down the
chain along the huge building's steeply sloping side like three flies.

I was ten feet down from the window, now, twenty feet, and glanced down
toward the glowing, empty street, five hundred feet below, and seeming
five thousand. Then, at a sudden sound from above me, I looked sharply
up, and as I did so the most sickening sensation of fear I had ever
experienced swept over me. For at the window we had just left, twenty
feet above me, one of the tentacle-creatures was leaning out, brought
to our cell, I doubted not, by the metal bar's ringing fall, his white,
red-rimmed eye turned full upon me.

I heard sighs of horror from my two companions beneath me, and for a
single moment we hung motionless along the chain's length, swinging
along the huge pyramid's glowing side at a height of hundreds of feet
above the shining streets below. Then the creature raised one of its
tentacles, a metal tool in its grasp, which he brought down in a sharp
blow on the chain at the window's edge. Again he repeated the blow, and
again.

_He was cutting the chain!_




5


For a space of seconds I hung motionless there, and then as the tool in
the grasp of the creature above came down on the chain in another sharp
blow the sound galvanized me into sudden action.

"Slide on down!" I cried. They didn't, however, but followed me up the
chain, though Dal Nara and I alone came to grips with the horrible
dead-star creature. I gripped the links with frantic hands, pulling
myself upward toward the window and the creature at the window, twenty
feet above me.

Three times the tool in his hand came down upon the chain while I
struggled up toward him, and each time I expected the strand to sever
and send us down to death, but the hard metal withstood the blows for
the moment, and before he could strike at it again I was up to the
level of the window and reaching up toward him.

As I did so, swift black tentacles thrust out and gripped Dal Nara and
me, while another of the snaky arms swept up with the tool in its grasp
for a blow on my head. Before it could fall, though, I had reached out
with my right hand, holding to the chain with my left, and had grasped
the body of the thing inside the window, pulling him outside before he
had time to resist. As I did so my own hold slipped a little, so that
we hung a few feet below the window, both clinging to the slender chain
and both striking futilely at each other, he with the metal tool and I
with my clenched fist.

A moment we hung there, swaying hundreds of feet above the luminous
stone street, and then the creature's tentacles coiled swiftly around
my neck, tightening, choking me. Hanging precariously to our slender
strand with one hand I struck out blindly with the other, but felt
consciousness leaving me as that remorseless grip tightened. Then with
a last effort I gripped the chain firmly with both hands, doubled my
feet under me, and kicked out with all my strength. The kick caught
the cone-body of my opponent squarely, tearing him loose from his own
hold on the chain, and then there was a sudden wrench at my neck and I
was free of him, while beneath Dal Nara and I glimpsed his dark body
whirling down toward the street below, twisting and turning in its
fall along the building's slanting side and then crashing finally down
upon the smooth, shining street below, where it lay a black little
huddled mass.

Hanging there I looked down, panting, and saw that Hurus Hol had
reached the chain's bottom and was standing in the empty street,
awaiting us. Glancing up I saw that the blows of the creature I had
fought had half severed one of the links above me, but there was no
time to readjust it; so with a prayer that it might hold a few moments
longer Dal Nara and I began our slipping, sliding progress downward.

The sharp links tore our hands cruelly as we slid downward, and once
it seemed to me that the chain gave a little beneath our weight.
Apprehensively I looked upward, then down to where Hurus Hol was waving
encouragement. Down, down we slid, not daring to look beneath again,
not knowing how near we might be to the bottom. Then there was another
slight give in the chain, a sudden grating catch, and abruptly the
weakened link above snapped and we dropped headlong downward--ten feet
into the arms of Hurus Hol.

A moment we sprawled in a little heap there on the glowing street and
then staggered to our feet. "Out of the city!" cried Hurus Hol. "We
could never get to the condenser-switch on foot--but in the cruiser
there's a chance. And we have but a few minutes now before the
sleep-period ends!"

Down the broad street we ran, now, through squares and avenues of
glowing, mighty pyramids, crouching down once as the ever-hovering
cones swept by above, and then racing on. At any moment, I knew,
the great horns might blare across the city, bringing its swarming
thousands into its streets, and our only chance was to win free of
it before that happened. At last we were speeding down the street
by which we had entered the city, and before us lay that street's
end, with beyond it the vista of black forest and glowing plain over
which we had come. And now we were racing over that glowing plain, a
quarter-mile, a half, a mile....

Abruptly from far behind came the calling, crescendo notes of the
mighty horns, marking the sleep-period's end, bringing back into the
streets the city's tentacle-people. It could be but moments now, we
knew, before our escape was discovered, and as we panted on at our
highest speed we listened for the sounding of the alarm behind us.

It came! When we had drawn to within a half-mile of the black forest
where our cruiser lay hidden, another great tumult of horn-notes
burst out over the glowing city behind, high and shrill and raging.
And glancing back we saw swarms of the black cones rising from the
pyramidal buildings' summits, circling, searching, speeding out over
the glowing plains around the city, a compact mass of them racing
straight toward us.

"On!" cried Hurus Hol. "It's our last chance--to get to the cruiser!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Staggering, stumbling, with the last of our strength we sped on, over
the glowing soil and rocks, toward the rim of the black forest which
lay now a scant quarter-mile ahead. Then suddenly Hurus Hol stumbled,
tripped and fell. I halted, turned toward him, then turned again as Dal
Nara shouted thickly and pointed upward. We had been sighted by the
speeding cones above and two of them were driving straight down toward
us.

A moment we stood there, rigid, while the great cones dipped toward us,
waiting for the death that would crash down upon us from them. Then
suddenly a great dark shape loomed in the air above and behind us, from
which sprang out swift shafts of brilliant green light, the dazzling
de-cohesion ray, striking the two swooping cones and sending them down
in twin torrents of shattered wreckage. And now the mighty bulk behind
us swept swiftly down upon us, and we saw that it was our cruiser.

Smoothly it shot down to the ground, and we stumbled to its side,
through the waiting open door. As I staggered up to the bridgeroom the
third officer was shouting in my ear. "We sighted you from the forest,"
he was crying. "Came out in the cruiser to get you----"

But now I was in the bridgeroom, brushing the wheelman from the
controls, sending our ship slanting sharply up toward the zenith.
Hurus Hol was at my side, now, pointing toward the great telechart and
shouting something in my ear. I glanced over, and my heart stood still.
For the great dark disk on the chart had swept down to within an inch
of the shining line around our sun-circle, the danger-line.

"The condenser!" I shouted. "We must get to that switch--turn it off!
It's our only chance!"

We were racing through the air toward the luminous city, now, and ahead
a mighty swarm of the cones was gathering and forming to meet us, while
from behind and from each side came other swarms, driving on toward us.
Then the door clicked open and Dal Nara burst into the bridgeroom.

"The ship's ray-tubes are useless!" she cried. "They've used the last
charge in the ray-tanks!"

At that cry the controls quivered under my hands, the ship slowed,
stopped. Silence filled the bridgeroom, filled all the cruiser, the
last silence of despair. We had failed. Weaponless our ship hung there,
motionless, while toward it from all directions leaped the swift and
swarming cones, in dozens, in scores, in hundreds, leaping toward us,
long black messengers of death, while on the great telechart the mighty
dark star leapt closer toward the shining circle that was our sun,
toward the fateful line around it. We had failed, and death was upon us.

And now the black swarms of the cones were very near us, and were
slowing a little, as though fearing some ruse on our part, were slowing
but moving closer, closer, while we awaited them in a last utter stupor
of despair. Closer they came, closer, closer....

A ringing, exultant cry suddenly sounded from somewhere in the cruiser
beneath me, taken up by a sudden babel of voices, and then Dal Nara
cried out hoarsely, beside me, and pointed up through our upper
observation-windows toward a long, shining, slender shape that was
driving down toward us out of the upper air, while behind it drove a
vast swarm of other and larger shapes, long and black and mighty.

"It's our own ship!" Dal Nara was shouting, insanely. "It's Ship 16!
They escaped, got back to the Galaxy--and look there--behind them--it's
the fleet, the Federation fleet!"

There was a wild singing of blood in my ears as I looked up, saw the
mighty swarm of black shapes that were speeding down upon us behind
the shining cruiser, the five thousand mighty battle-cruisers of the
Federation fleet.

The fleet! The massed fighting-ships of the Galaxy, cruisers from
Antares and Sirius and Regulus and Spica, the keepers of the Milky
Way patrol, the picked fighters of a universe! Ships with which I had
cruised from Arcturus to Deneb, beside which I had battled in many
an interstellar fight. The fleet! They were straightening, wheeling,
hovering, high above us, and then they were driving down upon the
massed swarms of cones around us in one titanic, simultaneous swoop.

Then around us the air flashed brilliant with green ray and bursting
flares, as de-cohesion rays and etheric bombs crashed and burst from
ship to ship. Weaponless our cruiser hung there, at the center of that
gigantic battle, while around us the mighty cruisers of the Galaxy and
the long black cones of the tentacle-people crashed and whirled and
flared, swooping and dipping and racing upon each other, whirling down
to the glowing world below in scores of shattered wrecks, vanishing
in silent flares of blinding light. From far away across the surface
of the luminous world beneath, the great swarms of cones drove on
toward the battle, from the shining towers of cities far away, racing
fearlessly to the attack, sinking and falling and crumbling beneath the
terrible rays of the leaping ships above, ramming and crashing with
them to the ground in sacrificial plunges. But swiftly, now, the cones
were vanishing beneath the brilliant rays.

Then Hurus Hol was at my side, shouting and pointing down toward the
glowing city below. "The condenser!" he cried, pointing to where its
blue radiance still flared on. "The dark star--look!" He flung a
hand toward the telechart, where the dark star disk was but a scant
half-inch from the shining line around our sun-circle, a tiny gap
that was swiftly closing. I glanced toward the battle that raged
around us, where the Federation cruisers were sending the cones down
to destruction by swarms, now, but unheeding of the condenser below.
A bare half-mile beneath us lay that condenser, and its cage-pillar
switch, which a single shaft of the green ray would have destroyed
instantly. And our ray-tubes were useless!

Then wild resolve flared up in my brain and I slammed down the levers
in my hands, sent our ship racing down toward the condenser and its
upheld cage like a released thunderbolt of hurtling metal. "_Hold
tight!_" I screamed as we thundered down. "_I'm going to ram the
switch!_"

And now up toward us were rushing the brilliant blue hemispheres of
the pit, the great pillar and upheld cage beside them, toward which we
flashed with the speed of lightning. _Crash!_--and a tremendous shock
shook the cruiser from stem to stern as its prow tore through the
upheld metal cage, ripping it from its supporting pillar and sending
it crashing to the ground. Our cruiser spun, hovered for a moment as
though to whirl down to destruction, then steadied, while we at the
window gazed downward, shouting.

For beneath us the blinding radiance of the massed hemispheres had
suddenly snapped out! Around and above us the great battle had died,
the last of the cones tumbling to the ground beneath the rays of the
mighty fleet, and now we turned swiftly to the telechart. Tensely we
scanned it. Upon it the great dark-star disk was creeping still toward
the line around our sun-circle, creeping slower and slower toward
it but still moving on, on, on.... Had we lost, at the last moment?
Now the black disk, hardly moving, was all but touching the shining
line, separated from it by only a hair's-breadth gap. A single moment
we watched while it hovered thus, a moment in which was settled the
destiny of a sun. And then a babel of incoherent cries came from our
lips. For the tiny gap was _widening_!

The black disk was moving back, was curving outward again from our sun
and from the Galaxy's edge, curving out once more into the blank depths
of space whence it had come, without the star it had planned to steal.
Out, out, out--and we knew, at last, that we had won.

And the mighty fleet of ships around us knew, from their own
tele-charts. They were massing around us and hanging motionless while
beneath us the palely glowing gigantic dark star swept on, out into the
darkness of trackless space until it hung like a titanic feeble moon in
the heavens before us, retreating farther and farther from the shining
stars of our Galaxy, carrying with it the glowing cities and the hordes
of the tentacle-peoples, never to return. There in the bridgeroom, with
our massed ships around us, we three watched it go, then turned back
toward our own yellow star, serene and far and benignant, that yellow
star around which swung our own eight little worlds. And then Dal Nara
flung out a hand toward it, half weeping now.

"The sun!" she cried. "The sun! The good old sun, that we fought for
and saved! _Our_ sun, till the end of time!"




6


It was on a night a week later that Dal Nara and I said farewell to
Hurus Hol, standing on the roof of that same great building on Neptune
from which we had started with our fifty cruisers weeks before. We
had learned, in that week, how the only survivor of those cruisers,
Ship 16, had managed to shake off the pursuing cones in that first
fierce attack and had sped back to the Galaxy to give the alarm, of how
the mighty Federation fleet had raced through the Galaxy from beyond
Antares in answer to that alarm, speeding out toward the approaching
dark star and reaching it just in time to save our own ship, and our
sun.

The other events of that week, the honors which had been loaded upon
us, I shall not attempt to describe. There was little in the solar
system which we three could not have had for the asking, but Hurus Hol
was content to follow the science that was his life-work, while Dal
Nara, after the manner of her sex through all the ages, sought a beauty
parlor, and I asked only to continue with our cruiser in the service
of the Federation fleet. The solar system was home to us, would always
be home to us, but never, I knew, would either of us be able to break
away from the fascination of the great fleet's interstellar patrol, the
flashing from sun to sun, the long silent hours in cosmic night and
stellar glare. We would be star-rovers, she and I, until the end.

So now, ready to rejoin the fleet, I stood on the great building's
roof, the mighty black bulk of our cruiser behind us and the stupendous
canopy of the Galaxy's glittering suns over our heads. In the streets
below, too, were other lights, brilliant flares, where thronging crowds
still celebrated the escape of their worlds. And now Hurus Hol was
speaking, more moved than ever I had seen him.

"If Nal Jak were here----" he said, and we were all silent for a
moment. Then his hand came out toward us and silently we wrung it,
turning toward the cruiser's door.

As it slammed shut behind us we were ascending to the bridgeroom, and
from there we glimpsed now the great roof dropping away beneath us as
we slanted up from it once more, the dark figure of Hurus Hol outlined
for a moment at its edge against the lights below, then vanishing. And
the world beneath us was shrinking, vanishing once more, until at last
of all the solar system behind us there was visible only the single
yellow spark that was our sun.

Then about our outward-racing cruiser was darkness, the infinite void's
eternal night--night and the unchanging, glittering hosts of wheeling,
flaming stars.





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STAR-STEALERS ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


